APCC president warns member over inside fighting TNN | Aug 6 , 2001 , 11.06 PM IST hyderabad : andhra pradesh congress committee president m satyanarayana rao , clearly upset and angry over the rumblings in the party over a rift in kurnool congress as well as what he called backstabbing by some leaders in the recent panchayat raj elections , said : " wait till the 20th of this month and see what i will do . " responding to a question on some party leaders criticising him for addressing thousands of d vishnuvardhan reddy 's supporters who came from kurnool to gandhi bhavan on friday , rao said those who criticise him should know that people , when in an agitated mood , need to be heard and placated . 

" anyone in my position would have done the same , " he said . 

speaking to reporters after receiving a memorandum from kurnool dcc president kotla jaya suryaprakash reddy and others against vishnuvardhan reddy , rao said he was not informed by the dcc about the planned demonstration in hyderabad on friday . " it was the dcc leadership 's failure . 

they should have informed me . 

they also did not inform me that the dcc had issued a show cause notice to vishnuvardhan reddy , " rao said . 

the apcc president made it clear that he would present memoranda submitted by vishnuvardhan reddy against kotla vijayabhaskara reddy and others as well as the one received on monday before the aicc observer after august 20 . 

on the demand from party mla shikhamani to suspend clp leader y s rajasekhara reddy from the party , rao dismissed it saying " tomorrow they will ask for my sacking . " url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/APCC-president-warns-member-over-inside-fighting/articleshow/1369726813.cms 

7 arrested in murder case TNN & Agencies | Jul 29 , 2001 , 11.27 PM IST davanagere : seven people were arrested on friday in connection with the murder of madegowda ( 35 ) , a lingayat from mattihalli village in harapanahalli taluk of davanagere district , sp n.r. nadamani said . 

although cases were booked against 21 members , the police could nab only seven people as the others were absconding from the village . 

all the accused were kept under judicial custody upto august 10 , the sp added . 

it can be recalled that due to a group clash at the village between the lingayats and kurabas , madegowda was done to death on thursday . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/7-arrested-in-murder-case/articleshow/1222630176.cms 

Celebrating Teachers ' Day sans teachers TNN | Sep 6 , 2001 , 12.42 AM IST vadodara / ahmedabad : dr sarvapalli radhakrishnan would probably be frowning down from heaven on his birthday . 

it is not everyday that the very teachers in whose honour the teachers ' day is celebrated should announce that they would observe it as ' black day ' . 

with the striking secondary and higher secondary teachers across 5,500 schools in the state refusing to relent and return to the class-rooms even on this day , the teachers ' day on wednesday is all set to be a big disappointment . 

no school , no fun of stepping into teachers ' shoes , and no opportunity to bestow teachers ' day cards and flowers on the favourite teachers . " the number of students buying teachers ' day cards has dropped by almost 80 per cent this year . 

but then , if teachers decide to turn their backs on the school and students on this day , who will the students buy cards for ? " offers biren patel , who runs a card shop on cg road in ahmedabad . 

the students could not agree more . " it is very disappointing that teachers have chosen to stick with their strike and spoil the fun , " rues a class vii student of ag teacher 's high school , who had been looking forward to teaching his juniors . " could n't the teachers have call off their strike for a day . 

after all , it is also a matter of their showing respect to the teaching fraternity , " questions a class xi student of st xavier 's loyola hall , in ahmedabad . 

in vadodara , a massive rally of teachers has been organised on wednesday to protest against the state government 's non-implementation of promises made in a compromise reached in 1998 . 

the baroda university teachers ' association has organised a seminar on several issues affecting the members . 

the vadodara district teachers ' association president nn desai said the rally would start at nazarbaug , and move on towards mandvi , gandhi nagar gruh , to end at kothi where a special dharna has been organised . 

women in white saris would present a memorandum to the district collector . 

meanwhile , the all india federation of university and college teachers organisation ( aifucto ) has planned to observe the day as save education day . 

the seminar organised by buta would be organised on september 5 at 4 pm in the seminar room , department of geology , faculty of science , m s university . 

meanwhile , in his teachers ' day message on tuesday , governor sundar singh bhandari appealed to all teachers to set an example by imparting education and cultural values to students on september 5 . " it is their moral responsibility to preserve the heritage of knowledge and culture for the benefit of reform and prosperity of the nation , " he said . 

but the gujarat rajya shaikshanik sankalan samiti has different plans , what with it deciding to pursue its own agenda . " the teachers ' day will be observed as black day across the state , and we will hold demonstrations against all state-government functions held to mark the day , " said president of the samiti keshubhai patel . 

at the special receiving end of the teachers ' ire will be the teachers ' day programme at gandhinagar , as also the ' best teacher ' award presentation function in the city . 

while school managements insist that the teachers ' day will be observed with all fervour in primary sections , they confess that the striking teachers have subverted the relevance of the day . " it is an insult that even on the teachers ' day , teachers have continued with the bandh . 

it reflects very poorly on the teaching fraternity , " felt principal of a renowned school . 

teachers , on their part , defended the strike . " we feel bad that probably for the first time , teachers will be absent on teachers ' day . 

but then students and the society should understand that we , too , are a part of the society , and have our basic demands that should be met , " said narendra pandya . 

pandya is an english teacher at republic high school and had recently received the excellent young educator award . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Celebrating-Teachers-Day-sans-teachers/articleshow/563149323.cms 

Curfew to be lifted in Hubli today TNN | Sep 22 , 2001 , 10.28 PM IST hubli : life in hubli city which was disrupted following violent incidents for the past one week is slowly returning to normal . 

the curfew which was imposed from dusk to dawn on saturday will cease on sunday . 

no untoward incident was reported in the last 24 hours and commercial establishments including banks transacted business on saturday , as day curfew was lifted . 

igp , jyotiprakash mirji who is monitoring the situation in hubli said , over 200 persons who were arrested on precautionary measures were released on bail on saturday , by the tahsildar . 

however , prohibitory orders under section 144 of ipc is likely to be extended till the end of this month , mirji said . 

additional director general of police , ( law and order ) , m.d. singh , who had rushed to hubli following violent incidents on saturday last , left for bangalore on saturday morning . 

the educational institutions which remained closed will reopen on monday . 

minor tensions prevailed in dharwad on friday evening , when some miscreants pelted stones at a jewellery shop in gandhi chowk . 

the residents of the area , chased away the miscreants . 

meanwhile , the transfer of twin cities police commissioner y.r. patil on the very day of home minister 's visit to the affected areas in hubli has sent shockwaves in the police circles . 

it is expected that many heads will roll this time . 

though karnataka home minister mallikarjun kharge tried to remain non-committal regarding the failure of police and state intelligence in handling the situation during the 75th birth anniversary of vhp chief ashok singhal , acted swiftly and the marching orders were issued even before the home minister reached bangalore . 

while the sangh parivar has welcomed the move of the state government in transferring the police commissioner , it has condemned the statement made by kharge that a particular community was targetted . 

it has urged chief minister s.m. krishna to drop labour minister a.m. hindasgeri from the cabinet , as the latter had acted in an ` ` ineffective ' ' and ` ` biased ' ' manner . 

the district unit of janata dal ( u ) has criticised the action of the government in transferring y.r. patil . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Curfew-to-be-lifted-in-Hubli-today/articleshow/1553037015.cms 

Phoolan murder condemned TNN & Agencies | Jul 28 , 2001 , 10.51 PM IST bellary : district samata sainik dal students ' federation condemned the barbaric murder of phoolan devi , terming it an act of cowardice . 

the members demanded the dismissal of the nda government , which had failed to protect a member of parliament . 

in a letter , federation district president purushottam , government employees ' federation president rudrappa and samata sainik dal students ' federation president k.b. prahlad stated that the attacks on dalits in bihar and minorities in uttar pradesh only suggests that there in no security for the dalit , weaker sections and minorities in this country , which is shameful on the part of the central government . 

home minister l.k. advani and prime minister vajpayee should take the moral responsibility for the barbaric killing of phoolan devi , and resign , they demanded . 

the members also demanded immediate arrest of the culprits without conceding to political pressure . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Phoolan-murder-condemned/articleshow/1485502531.cms 

Tribunal sought for hospital strikes TNN | Sep 22 , 2001 , 12.48 AM IST new delhi : the delhi high court on friday proposed to set up a permanent reference tribunal to adjudicate on hospital strikes , under a retired high court chief justice . 

a division bench comprising chief justice arijit passayat and justice d k jain said the tribunal would have union health secretary and labour secretary as two other members , with the medical superintendent of all india institute of medical sciences as its convener . 

the proposal was mooted by the court in the light of the recent strike by doctors and employees in aiims . 

the court , which had initiated suo moto action for ending the strike by aiims ' resident doctors and its group c and d employees , directed standing counsel maninder singh to apprise it about the centre 's stand on the proposal for setting up the reference tribunal by october 1 . 

the court said any dispute which could not be resolved , by the departmental committees of any health institution , would be referred to the tribunal for adjudication . 

the court made it clear that the tribunal would only deal with disputes arising within the institutions and will have nothing to do with the policy decisions of the government or by institutes including aiims . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Tribunal-sought-for-hospital-strikes/articleshow/1592923808.cms 

No scarcity of fodder in Arsikere TNN | Aug 14 , 2001 , 10.50 PM IST hassan : district in-charge secretary shantanu consul visited hassan on monday to review the progress of various departments . 

consul told reporters after the review meeting that there was no scarcity of dry fodder in arsikere and channarayapatna talukas , which have been declared worst-hit . 

steps are being taken to provide drinking water , especially arsikere taluka . 

he said relief work , including desilting of 58 tanks in arsikere and channarayapatna would be taken up soon . 

he said the state government has issued clear directions to the authorities to undertake works in the affected villages throughout the district . 

deputy commissioner b.p. kaniram and ceo r . 

narayanaswamy were present . 

farmers lay siege : around 150 farmers from 10 villages laid siege to the office of the assistant executive engineer attached to the irrigation department at holenarasipura on tuesday . 

they were protesting against the shortage of water in the south end canal attached to sri ramadeva mini dam for six months . 

the protesters returned after the engineer assured them that water would be released for two days in a week . 

farmers from mudallahippe , thevadahali , gunjevu , katekere , hulivala , jakawalikopalu , singapura and gondhimalenahalli in holenarasipur taluka participated . 

executive engineer bandigaiah said the proposal to take up canal work on the south bank of the dam has been sent to the government . 

zp member chandrashekar and kumaraswamy mudalahippe , grama panchayat member , were present . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/No-scarcity-of-fodder-in-Arsikere/articleshow/1169332369.cms 

Protest against police inaction TNN & Agencies | Aug 21 , 2001 , 12.14 AM IST more than 2000 persons staged a protest near vijay theatre ground against the district police for the delay in taking action against the culprits in the segra murder case . 

three members of a ' dalit ' family were shot at village segra under naggal constituency in ambala district . 

the protest rally was headed by the former mp and expelled president of the bahujan samaj party , haryana , aman kumar nagra . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Protest-against-police-inaction/articleshow/573267564.cms 

STATESCAN TNN & Agencies | Sep 1 , 2001 , 11.57 PM IST bjp leader 's house attacked sonepat : five armed youths attacked the house of local bjp leader here , injuring two members of his family , police said , on saturday . 

the assailants , which included one mahesh kumar , a close relative of district bjp president om prakash atrey , attacked the house of haripal sharma in old housing board colony here , on friday and fired at his son and nephew before escaping , they said . 

the injured youths , yash priya ( 22 ) and toni ( 21 ) were rushed to the local civil hospital , where they are stated to be out of danger , they added . 

intrusion foiled , one pak national killed ferozepur : vigilant border security force ( bsf ) jawans foiled an intrusion bid by pakistani nationals , near border out post ( bop ) gatti rao , under jalalabad sector , on friday , killing one of them on the spot . 

according to bsf sources , two pakistani nationals were spotted by the bsf patrolling party near the gatti rao check post while they were trying to sneak into the indian territory . 

they ignored the bsf warning , fired at the patrolling party and tried to get back to the pakistani side . 

one of them was shot dead , while the other one succeeded in crossing over to pakistan . 

7.75 kg opium recovered from 2 armymen the district police claimed to have recovered 7.75 kg of opium from two armymen , here , on friday . 

ssp harchand singh sidhu said that following a tip-off that some armymen were smuggling opium and selling it in the cantonment area , a police party led by dsp ( detective ) hardev singh kular laid a trap near the army recruitment centre and arrested two persons . 

opium weighing 7.75 kg was recovered from them . 

the two have been identified as nayak hari ram , a resident of jodhpur district of rajasthan , and parshotam singh , a resident of gurdaspur district . 

both were attached with 286 medium regiment . 

a case under the ndps act has been registered at the cantonment police station . 

the accused confessed during interrogation that they had been smuggling opium from rajasthan and supplying it in the cantonment area . 

the ssp said that since both the accused were from the army , their contacts with ' other agencies ' cannot be ruled out . 

panthic morcha to hold protest on sept 10 the panthic morcha will organise a series of public rallies in the state against the ' ' anti-people policies ' ' of the ruling badal government , said mla and former punjab minister inderjit singh zira , here , on saturday . 

he said the panthic morcha would hold a massive protest rally outside the deputy commissioner 's office , at ferozepur , on september 10 , in which baba sarbjot singh bedi , g s tohra , simranjit singh mann , jathedar ranjit singh , ravi inder singh , jasbir singh rode and other senior leaders of the morcha would participate . 

addressing mediapersons , he said that people had lost faith in the government machinery . 

five booked for damaging mosque rohtak : the meham police of the district booked five persons , on saturday , on the charge of causing damage to a mosque , police sources here , said . 

the accused allegedly dismantled a dilapidated mosque , located in ward no 9 , at meham town , about 30 km from here , and started constructing a temple on the site . 

the police , on the basis of a complaint lodged by a punjab wakf board official , registered a case under section 147 , 148 , 285 and 447 of the indian penal code against prem yadav , purushotam yadav , vijay , sanjay and anil . 

however , there was no report of any arrest in this connection . 

father kills children , himself driven by abject poverty , a man , in an inebriated condition , killed his two children and then committed suicide in madina village , about 15 km from here , on friday night , the police said on saturday . 

brijender singh , a dalit , brutally stabbed his two children - poonam ( 6 ) and shiv kumar ( four ) - to death with sharp-edged weapons and later committed suicide by consuming poison , police said . 

brijender was working as a labourer . 

sushma swaraj to lay foundation stone ambala : union information and broadcasting minister , sushma swaraj will lay the foundation stone for a low frequency transmitter for dd -2 channel at the industrial area , ambala cantonment , on monday . 

chief minister , om prakash chautala will also be present on the occasion . 

viewers of dd -2 , residing in and around ambala , within a radius of 35 km , will be benefited by the installation of the transmitter . 

28 - year-old man commits suicide vinod kumar , a 28 - year-old resident of jansui , attempted to commit suicide by consuming poison , on friday . 

his relatives admitted him to the mission hospital , in a critical state , where he died on saturday morning . 

the body was handed over to his family after an autopsy was conducted later on saturday . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/STATESCAN/articleshow/708599418.cms 

Dikshit turns to God on CNG NEW DELHI : On the eve of their final test before the Supreme Court on the CNG issue , chief minister Sheila Dikshit and transport minister Parvez Hashmi looked heavenwards . 

TNN | Sep 28 , 2001 , 12.22 AM IST new delhi : on the eve of their final test before the supreme court on the cng issue , the delhi government looked heavenwards for some kind of help . 

sheila dikshit and parvez hashmi turned up at an akhand path organised by transporters ' unions on wednesday , hoping god , if no one else , would bail them out of this drawn-out crisis . " bhagwan ka ashirwad hum sabke saath rahe , " dikshit muttered , being the first to arrive at gurudwara bangla sahib . 

clad in a cream sari , she was given a saffron ' saropa ' by the head priest . 

then came hashmi , who too hoped " all would be blessed " . 

perhaps by another extension of the deadline . 

but it was not just members of the government largely to blame for the mess that put in a show . 

political foes finally got to agree on one point about the cng issue : only god can resolve it . 

bjp leader madan lal khurana , architect of many anti-government protests , lent his voice , and a broad smile . 

so did former delhi industry minister harsharan singh balli . 

the three-day recitation of the guru granth sahib was organised by the delhi transporters ' unions , hoping for an extension in the cng conversion deadline which expires this month . 

the transporters , happy to see politicians from both sides of the divide there , requested dikshit and hashmi to stay on . 

the chief minister promptly excused herself saying " assembly mein bhi jaana hai . " khurana and hashmi seemed so in tune , they came out with a joint statement : " both the union and city governments extend their support for the transporters ' cause . " after having ' bhog ' , they spent a few minutes with heads lowered , prayed for blessings , and then left . 

soon after the politicians left , the transporters shifted base to bhagwan dass road near the supreme court . 

led by the contract bus association chief harish sabharwal , they sat on an indefinite hunger strike , demanding an extension of the september 30 deadline . " after knocking on the doors of god , it 's time to knock on the doors of the supreme court , " said sabharwal . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Dikshit-turns-to-God-on-CNG/articleshow/1476407249.cms 

Auto drivers stage dharna HYDERABAD : Auto drivers staged a dharna at Indira Park in Hyderabad on Wednesday , in protest against the alleged harassment by the traffic police . 

TNN | Aug 8 , 2001 , 11.00 PM IST hyderabad : auto drivers staged a dharna at indira park in hyderabad on wednesday , in protest against the alleged harassment by the traffic police and demanded scrapping of the go imposing heavy penalties for minor traffic violations . 

scores of auto drivers belonging to auto drivers and workers federation , affiliated to all india trade union congress ( aituc ) , took part in the dharna . 

other demands of the federation include , forming cooperative societies for the welfare of auto drivers , allotment of house sites and sanctioning of loans to the auto drivers . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/Auto-drivers-stage-dharna/articleshow/322098038.cms 

Police to probe demolition violence TNN | Aug 18 , 2001 , 02.28 AM IST new delhi : the delhi police has instituted an inquiry into violence during a demolition in prashant vihar last week . 

the police are also examining the video film which had been taken during the demolition . 

leader of the house mahesh chandra sharma said the police commissioner has instituted a vigilance inquiry and the guilty officials will be punished . 

sharma said : " the commissioner said so to a delegation of eight councillors on friday . 

the delegation apprised him of police high handedness and also the fact that rohini councillor vijendra kumar had been targeted by the police , without any provocation . " a demolition by the municipal corporation turned controversial when the police allegedly assaulted people and badly injured councillor kumar . 

the police on the other hand said that it resorted to a lathi charge only after two of its constables were attacked and injured by the crowd . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Police-to-probe-demolition-violence/articleshow/419074990.cms 

Order on advocate 's bail plea reserved for today TNN | Aug 9 , 2001 , 12.30 AM IST new delhi : a city court has reserved its order for thursday on the bail plea of an advocate accused of participating in the conspiracy to murder phoolan devi . 

advocate praveen mittal , who is now in judicial custody after his arrest on thursday from roorkee , had moved his bail application before additional sessions judge r l chugh at patiala house courts on wednesday . 

mittal 's bail application was rejected by a metropolitan magistrate when he was produced in the court after his arrest last week . 

opposing the bail , special public prosecutor s k saxena contended the crime was ` ` heinous ' ' in nature as mittal had apprised the killers on the legal aspects of police and court proceedings . 

this , saxena said , played a crucial role in executing the conspiracy . 

saxena alleged mittal , who also provided the weapon to the killers , had ` ` masterminded ' ' the plot . 

pressing for bail , mittal 's lawyers sameer chatrath and surinder anand contended no proper procedure , as required under the law , was followed by the delhi police when he was arrested from roorkee and then brought to delhi . 

chatrath said his client cannot be accused of conspiracy as the police has not booked him under section 120 - b for conspiracy and the accused is already in judicial custody . 

the prosecutor alleged mittal , a practising advocate , used his knowledge of law to create an alibi for the main accused , sher singh rana alias pankaj . 

according to him , while rana allegedly shot dead phoolan devi in delhi , someone claiming to be rana had already surrendered in roorkee and gone behind the bars a day before the murder . 

that person , shravan , was released in roorkee a day after the murder in delhi . 

he said mittal had helped in executing the scheme . 

rana was already out on bail in roorkee on some earlier offence under the excise act . 

the person who stood as his surety withdrew it a day before the crime in delhi . 

as a result , shravan , posing to be rana , went inside the roorkee jail and came out when a new surety was furnished a day after the killing was carried out in delhi . 

thus on jail records it was ` ` rana ' ' who was behind bars in roorkee when the murder took place in delhi , the spp said . 

mittal was brought to delhi along with the other accused ^ a party worker keshav chauhan and gun-shop owner amit rathi . 

rathi 's application for the bail will be heard in the court of a metropolitan magistrate on thursday . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Order-on-advocates-bail-plea-reserved-for-today/articleshow/876049580.cms 

BSNL Employees Union protests against disinvestment PTI | Feb 14 , 2002 , 05.27 PM IST new delhi : bharat sanchar nigam ( bsnl ) employees union on thursday warned the government against any move to disinvest stake in bsnl and mtnl saying it was against the assurances given . " the announcement of the communications minister pramod mahajan is not only shocking , but against the assurances given earlier by the government that bsnl would not be privatised . 

we have called upon the employees to immediately protest by holding demonstrations before respective offices throughout the country , " a bsnl employees union said in a statement here . 

stating that the bsnl employees and officers would not take the announcement lightly , it demanded that the proposal for disinvesting in bsnl and mtnl be dropped . 

mahajan has said on wednesday in mumbai that the government would disinvest its stake in mtnl and bsnl through competitive bidding although " no time table has been set " . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/BSNL-Employees-Union-protests-against-disinvestment/articleshow/972751.cms 

Burnt birs taken to Goindwal sahib TNN | Oct 2 , 2001 , 12.32 AM IST patiala : seven birs of guru granth sahib which were set afire by some miscreants at tarkhan majra village near sirhind , on sunday , were taken to goindwal sahib for immersion in river bias , in a religious procession of 200 people led by ' panj piaras ' from gurdwara fatehgarh sahib , on monday . 

the residents of mandi gobindgarh , sirhind and bassi pathana observed complete bandh on monday to protest the tarkhan majra incident . 

around 1,000 students participated in a march organised by the all-india sikh students federation , which passed through the markets of fatehgarh sahib and sirhind . 

later , the protesters burnt the effigy of piara singh bhaniara on gt road , near tarkhan majra village . 

they also blocked the traffic there . 

the people of sadugarh area also blocked traffic on gt road , near sadugarh bus stand . 

besides , the protesters at rurki kalan village burnt the effigy of bhanearewala and blocked traffic on the patiala-sirhind road . 

the sirhind police have reportedly rounded up around 40 suspects . 

nihang organisation budha dal led by baba santa singh has expressed shock over the incident and demanded registration of case under section 302 of the ipc.the baba has asked his nihang followers to guard the gurdwaras from miscreants . 

on the other hand , akal takht jathedar bhai manjit singh , while addressing the people sitting on dharna at tarkhan majra village , on sunday , said the sikhs were also responsible for these types of incidents as they were not properly guarding their religious places . 

he asked the entire sikh community to identify those political forces which wanted to use their emotions for their political motives . 

he said that the panthic government in the state , if it had good intentions , should arrest the persons responsible without any delay and not allow the miscreants to further dishonour the guru granth sahib and other religious books . 

bhai manjit singh said to honour the symbols of other religions was the prime duty of the sikhs , but he made it clear that the book written by bhanearewala was not a religious granth as it contained defamatory material in it . 

meanwhile , the shiromani gurdwara parbandhak committee has decided to organise a bhog of guru granth sahib at tarkhan majra village from tuesday and ardass would be performed on thursday . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Burnt-birs-taken-to-Goindwal-sahib/articleshow/1630031018.cms 

Shut schools in Vadodara contradict claims TNN | Sep 10 , 2001 , 11.31 PM IST vadodara : contrary to claims by authorities , a majority of secondary schools in the city remained closed following the strike call given by various teachers ' unions in city . 

the unions on monday decided to continue with the stir till their demands were accepted . 

a visit to prominent schools in the city on monday revealed that the schools had remained closed as teachers and principals refrained from joining duty . 

school officials said the schools reopened in the morning and a section of students came for studies , but classes could not be held due to lack of staff . 

an official of the baroda high school , alkapuri , said some students came to school in the morning , but were allowed to go back as there were no teachers . " a prayer meeting was held since they came all the way to school . 

later , they were allowed to go , " he said . 

other prestigious schools in city like convent of jesus and mary , rosary and others also could not conduct academic work . 

students who came to attend classes could be seen playing on the grounds of some of the schools . 

senior functionaries of various unions , which have gone on strike , said the list of schools declared open by authorities was deceiving . " it states that the managements of these schools have agreed to keep schools open . 

however , this does not mean that teachers will automatically start teaching there , " said the principal of a prominent school . 

the teachers had gathered at kothi building here despite prohibitory orders by the city police . 

police officials have now asked them to clear the site or face action . 

president of the principal 's association nikhil desai said the teachers were continuing with the strike . " we are continuing with the agitation programme , " he said . 

a rally of teachers from vadodara zone has been planned in the next couple of days . 

unions involved with the strike are making attempts to get permission for the same from authorities . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Shut-schools-in-Vadodara-contradict-claims/articleshow/1254281963.cms 

Vokkaliga rally gives Lakshmi 's case a political turn TNN | Aug 14 , 2001 , 10.51 PM IST mysore : the death of lakshmi , a 12 year old housemaid , and the incidents following it are slowly taking on a political hue , with the local vokkaliga organisations taking out a procession in support of the city police and trying to make it a community issue . 

members of organisations such as vokkaligara hita rakshana samiti , sarvodaya yuvaka sangha and vokkaliga jagrutha vedike , who took out a procession on tuesday defended police action and stood solidly behind the city police commissioner . 

leaders of these organisations , who addressed members at the deputy commissioner 's office before submitting a memorandum , said the organisations which have taken up the lakshmi issue are trying to tarnish the image of police commissioner chandrashekar , who belongs to the vokkaliga community . 

the leaders , apart from criticising ngos working against child labour and sex workers in the city , also lambasted writer ramdas and used choice epithets against him . " ngo leaders and ramdas are intolerant of chandrashekar 's good work in the city and have taken up the lakshmi issue to get him transferred , " the leaders alleged . 

they said these elements were behind the protest march organised by the ngos against the police on august 7 . 

bjp mla shankerlingegowda , who also addressed the youth at krishnarajendra circle , gave a clean chit to the police officers . 

though the organisers denied they were being instigated to take out the march in support of the police , it is rumoured that officers responsible for beating up the ngo leaders and ramdas have propped up the local vokkaliga youth to organise the march . 

however , the ngos and former mayor narayan , who was also beaten up by the police on august 7 when they took lakshmi 's body in a procession demanding action against the house owner , denied they had anything against any individual police officer in the city . 

lakshmi 's employer is a close relative of a city police officer and an influential person . " we are concerned about action against people responsible for the death of lakshmi and arrest of the culprits , besides suitable financial relief to lakshmi 's stepmother under whose care the former was left after the death of her parents , " narayan said , clarifying that they had never demanded the transfer of the city police commissioner . " we only demanded action against the police officers who roughed up ngo leaders and writer ramdas . 

" " politicising and giving a communal colour to lakshmi 's death and the incidents following it should be condemned , " he added . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Vokkaliga-rally-gives-Lakshmis-case-a-political-turn/articleshow/371182086.cms 

7 militants among 11 killed Sep 28 , 2001 , 01.03 AM IST srinagar : seven militants and a security jawan were among eleven people killed and 17 others injured in jammu and kashmir , even as ultras set on fire houses of three special police officers ( spos ) in the past 24 hours . 

an official spokesman said militants hurled a hand grenade at a border security force bunker at rainawari on tuesday evening . 

however , the grenade missed the target and exploded nearby injuring two jawans and nine civilians . 

some nearby shops were also damaged , he added . 

at least four people were injured when a grenade lobbed by militants on security forces missed the target and exploded on the roadside at zaldagar in downtown city , thursday afternoon . 

meanwhile , security forces gunned down one militant each at thandusa lolab , waripora magam and gund-i-zuna reshi in their overnight operations . 

three ak rifles , one wireless set , ten magazines , three grenades and about 100 rounds of ammunition were recovered from the slain militants . 

two girls were also injured in lolab encounter . 

militants shot dead an alleged informer mir hamza at chatti bandipora late wednesday night . 

another group attacked the house of a counter-insurgent in north kashmir in which one spo was injured . 

in another encounter between militants and security forces at banderpora kalanwan village in south kashmir on thursday morning a hizbul mujahideen militant was killed . 

one ak rifle , one wireless set , five grenades and a magazine was recovered from the site . 

another militant was killed near the line of actual control in kani behak kacdh hama area while trying to cross over to pakistan occupied kashmir on wednesday night . 

two militants were killed in return fire by security forces at gambir mughian in manjakote sector of rajouri district on thursday morning when a search party was fired upon by militants . 

a security force jawan and a porter were also killed in the clash . 

a large cache of arms and ammunition were recovered near the site of encounter . 

militants also abducted and later killed mir mohammad at banihal , and set on fire houses of three spos at khadiwali in rajouri district in the wee hours of thursday . 

( uni ) url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/7-militants-among-11-killed/articleshow/57528621.cms 

Suicide now a costly proposition TNN | Sep 29 , 2001 , 02.05 AM IST ganganagar : while the spiralling suicide rate ( between 150 -200 per year ) in this dusty district situated on the punjab , haryana pakistan border , was once indicative of social ills now any reason is good enough to issue threat to commit end one 's life . 

anything from police inaction , a demand for bribe by an official , a transfer to a far away place , inadequate canal water , demand for removal of encroachment or even garbage is good reason to threaten public " self-immolation . " last week the police was searching for umesh , son of an independent councilor the town , subdhara garg , who threatened self-immolation after the police failed to trace mother , who was allegedly kidnapped by some congress leaders of the area . 

each time there is a threat , the district administration goes into overdrive , for the adage that those who threaten do n't does not work here . 

there are a number of instances of persons who first issued threats appearing in front the district administration building and setting themselves ablaze . 

it was a lesson the administration learnt the hard way in july 1998 , when laxman khichi , a bjp municipal councillor , immolated himself in front of a large crowd after his threat of removal of encroachments or ' else ' was ignored . 

the then bjp government ended up paying the price for this at the polls as the suicide by its councillor became a potent issue against it . 

according to rp singh , the district police in charge , the district police have received over 150 suicide threats during the past two years . 

since a full address is seldom given locating the potential suicidee is difficult . 

when they do trace the person they bind him by a magisterial order and even send people in to preventive custody . 

but the police has devised a way to hit back . " as the police have to put in a lot of energy and time to locate a trouble maker , it has now started imposing a fine on those who issue a threat of suicide " , says rp singh . 

last month the police sent bills of rs 63,000 each to two persons , het ram and chhagan lal of karandwala village . 

the amount of rs 63,000 included one day salary of 80 police constables who were deployed near the district administration complex to thwart any attempt of self-immolation , fuel expenses for 10 days of the vehicle used to trace the duo and one day salary of an asp . 

rp singh told the times of india that the imposition of a fine should help to check the tendency . 

interestingly the suicide phenomenon is crossing borders into adjoining districts . 

there have been instances of the district administration in ferozepur receiving self-immolation threats . 

after the district police failed to trace his minor daughter and arrest the man accused in her kidnapping , har singh , a resident of guru har sahai town of the district , issued a threat of self-immolation on september 26 to be implemented in front of the district collectors office on october 10 . 

he claimed the police was reluctant to initiate any action against the accused because of pressure from a punjab cabinet minister even though the punjab and haryana high court has directed the police to register a case of kidnapping against the accused . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Suicide-now-a-costly-proposition/articleshow/1274338300.cms 

Safdarjung takes on excess load TNN | Aug 25 , 2001 , 12.07 AM IST new delhi : facing the all indian institute of medical sciences has proved costly for safdarjung hospital . 

now it is facing the brunt of the aiims strike as well . 

as resident doctors in aiims struck work for the third day on friday , patients arriving at safdarjung 's casualty ward have doubled in the last two days . 

safdarjung hospital 's medical superintendent dr jagdish prasad said : ` ` we usually receive about 1,300 patients in the casualty ward . 

the number has touched 2,200 since the aiims doctors went on strike . 

' ' he said the hospital authorities had not posted more doctors in casualty to take care of the extra load . ` ` our resources are limited and we are trying our best , ' ' he said . 

at the casualty , a doctor on duty said all 20 beds in that wing were occupied . ` ` so far we have been able to provide treatment to all the patients who have come to us . 

if the aiims strike does not end soon , the situation may turn grave , ' ' she said . 

with the aiims out-patients department also shut , safdarjung hospital is receiving more than its share . ` ` yesterday ( thursday ) we received about 7,800 patients in the opd , against the usual 6,000 patients , ' ' dr prasad said . 

he said he had requested his staff to try and accommodate as many patients as possible . ` ` unlike other hospitals we cannot turn away a patient even if we do not have a vacant bed . 

our doctors had to attend to all patients registered with our opd , ' ' he said . 

a senior doctor said it was not the first time that safdarjung hospital had been overloaded . ` ` every time aiims staff goes on strike , we mentally prepare ourselves for more work . 

even when there is no strike at aiims we are used to receiving patients turned away by them , ' ' he said . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Safdarjung-takes-on-excess-load/articleshow/1530434774.cms 

Shimoga limps back to normal TNN | Aug 28 , 2001 , 11.48 PM IST shimoga : shimoga city , which witnessed group clashes during the immersion of ganesha idol that led to the death of one person on sunday , is limping back to normal . 

shops , establishments , banks and offices remained opened on tuesday . 

the police attributed incident-free tuesday to the vigil and night curfew imposed on some pockets of the old city that witnessed disturbances on sunday when some miscreants threw stones at ganesha procession . 

educational institutions , which were closed till tuesday as a precautionary measure , will reopen on wednesday . 

prohibitory orders in the trouble-town of shimoga will continue for three more days to facilitate trouble-free immersion of ganesha idols . 

those injured in the clashes are recuperating , sources said . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Shimoga-limps-back-to-normal/articleshow/555278243.cms 

2 more Deendar Anjuman activists held for blast Aug 2 , 2001 , 11.52 PM IST hyderabad : 2 more activists of the banned religious outfit deendar anjuman , involved in the bomb explosions in places of worship were arrested and remanded to judicial custody . 

police on thursday said the duo , identified as syed mohammed noor ahmed alias noor ( 27 ) and syed mohammed abdul wahab alias wahab ( 34 ) , natives of vijayawada and had been absconding , were arrested near jahanuman in old city here on july 31 . 

the accused were produced on wednesday before ninth metropolitan magistrate , who remanded them to judicial custody till august 14 , police added . 

of the total 50 accused in the bomb explosions in places of worship , so far 40 had been arrested and one person is still absconding . 

while two of the accused died in the car explosion in bangalore in 2000 , seven others are identified as pakistani nationals . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/2-more-Deendar-Anjuman-activists-held-for-blast/articleshow/21162563.cms 

Occupancy rate falls as patients leave AIIMS TNN | Aug 28 , 2001 , 02.11 AM IST new delhi : with the karamcharis of aiims also announcing a strike on monday , services in the hospital came to a grinding halt . 

patients who were not serious chose to be discharged . 

and the occupancy rate fell from 90 per cent to about 40 per cent . 

rakesh singh had been hoping against hope for all these days . 

having been admitted to the surgery ward last wednesday , singh 's stomach operation was scheduled for monday . 

but after the karamcharis too went on strike bringing all services to a grinding halt , singh gave up . 

he approached the ward sister-in-charge , requested for a discharge and left against medical advice . 

before leaving he said : " i have been very unlucky . 

the day i was admitted the doctors went on strike . 

but all these days i was hoping that the strike would be called off and the surgery conducted . " he said : " after two months i was given a date for admission and surgery . 

but now that even the karamcharis have gone on strike . 

i just cannot continue to be in the wards . 

there is no one to bring food for the patients . " singh is among the hundreds of others who fled the hospital . 

after 4 pm on monday only 723 patients remained in the entire hospital whereas the bed capacity is over 1,600 . 

the worst affected appeared to the rajendra prasad centre for ophthalmic sciences which was left with only 50 patients as against a bed strength of about 300 . 

similarly , the institute rotary cancer hospital with a capacity of 70 beds had only 17 patients at the end of the day . " there was no one to clean the wards . 

since saturday all the filth has been lying on the corridors . 

even the toilets have not been cleaned for more than two days . 

who can still remain admitted here ? " asked sunita rani whose sister had been admitted to the ent ward . 

sunita said : " the nurses are the only ones coming in the wards . 

even the senior doctors did not come for the rounds . 

we did not know what the next line of treatment would be . " she said she would wait for a couple of days before seeking treatment elsewhere . 

seeing a large number of patients being discharged a large number of autorickshaw drivers parked their vehicles right outside the gate . 

gyan deep with a plastic bucket full of belongings which he had with him when he admitted to the surgery ward , said : " i preferred going home on monday as there is a transport strike on tuesday and i may have a big problem moving out . " gyan deep , too , was waiting to be operated in the gastro-intestinal region . " doctors had been suspecting an internal bleeding as i get anaemic every now and then . 

so i was to be operated upon to fix the problem . 

now i will come back only when i am sure that the strike has lifted , " he said . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Occupancy-rate-falls-as-patients-leave-AIIMS/articleshow/381506976.cms 

Centre 's decision on ' shehjdharis ' upset SGPC CHANDIGARH : The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( SGPC ) and Panthic Morcha leaders are agitated over the Centre ’ s decision not to disallow ' sehajdharis ' from participating in the SGPC elections . 

TNN | Aug 25 , 2001 , 11.15 PM IST chandigarh : the shiromani gurdwara parbandhak committee ( sgpc ) and panthic morcha leaders are agitated over the centre 's decision not to disallow ' sehajdharis ' from participating in the sgpc elections . 

while panthic morcha leaders resolved to go on warpath against it and threatened to disrupt the election process , the sgpc said it would build public opinion against it so that the non-sikhs did not take advantage of it to enrol themselves as voters . 

both the sgpc and morcha leaders had submitted a joint memorandum to the gurdwara election commission last week demanding amendment to the all-india sikh gurdwara act , 1925 , to debar sehajdharis from becoming sgpc voters . 

according to sources , justice ( retd ) harbans singh , chief commissioner , later apprised the union home ministry of the memorandum and sought its opinion on it . 

it is after the centre overruled the suggestion mooted in the memorandum that the commission announced to go ahead with the election process . 

at a workers ' meeting , in ludhiana , on saturday , panthic leaders took exception to the centre 's decision to ignore their plea . 

senior panthic leader manjit singh calcutta said state-wide protest would be launched against the centre including staging of dharnas . 

while suggesting that the morcha might not move court as suggested by former sgpc president gurcharan singh tohra earlier , he said it might lead to law and order problem if the commission still carried on with the election process . " how could we allow non-sikhs to register themselves as voters and subvert the election process " , he added . 

sgpc general secretary kiranjot kaur said the matter would be taken up for discussion to decide the subsequent course of action . 

she said the sgpc would ensure to bring about awakening among the sikhs , who must watch that the provision of sehajdharis becoming voters was not exploited by people with vested interests . 

morcha leaders , at the conference , blamed chief minister parkash singh badal for compromising the interests of punjab on the river water issue . 

more than 1,000 workers coming from various factions of the morcha participated in the conference . 

this was the first state-level meeting of the morcha ever since it came into being early this month . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Centres-decision-on-shehjdharis-upset-SGPC/articleshow/30365224.cms 

Valjibhai Bagda does it again TNN | Aug 9 , 2001 , 10.32 PM IST rajkot : valjibhai bagda , congress party spokesman for saurashtra and kutch , is known for his surprise demonstrations and rallies on national issues . 

to highlight the ' failure ' of the union government in protecting the ' hindus of jammu ' , he stood in front of the ramakrishna ashrama here on wednesday with a placard that described the " govt of india " as ' goat of india ' . 

in the placard he made minor changes and replaced the letter ' v ' with ' a ' to symbolise the failure of the union government to protect citizens . 

he clams the government machinery has become ' goat ' in the face of growing terrorism in jammu where innocent people are being killed by extremists . 

among those killed last fortnight in jammu were balkrishna gidharilal and ramnath . 

he says when ' ram and krishna ' get killed , the union home minister lal krishna advani should own up responsibility and quit . 

valjibhai bagda 's solo demonstration did attract curious passers-by and for a few minutes even the ramakrihna ashrama witnessed traffic jam . 

group of congressmen were also there to cheer him up and bolster his morale . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Valjibhai-Bagda-does-it-again/articleshow/1282209380.cms 

MSU students leaders protest against payment seat proposal | THE TIMES OF INDIA NEWS SERVICE | Jul 11 , 2001 , 12.54 AM IST vadodara : ms university student leaders burnt effigy of state minister of higher education bharat barot near dn hall cricket ground on monday . 

student leaders called barot a ' greedy ' minister who was selling ' education ' in the name of self-financed colleges . 

student leaders were protesting over msu 's proposal to convert some seats in commerce into payment seats and charge rs 6000 as term fees from those who take admission on these seats . " barot knows that the days of his government are numbered . 

he knows that he would n't be a minister again and wants to cash in on the opportunity . 

this is why he has sanctioning a self-financed colleges " , said angry student leaders . 

they argued that education was state 's primary responsibility and one ca n't expect all people to dole out huge sum of money as fees for getting admissions . " everybody is not rich . 

even today majority of the people in our state are either poor or hail from the middle class " , said former msu students union vice president amar dhomse . 

he suspected that there was a design in minting money in the name of payment seats . " first they deliberately gave a very high hsc result . 

then they trumpeted ' not having enough seats in colleges ' . 

later , very swiftly , they propagated this theory of solving the admission problem through self-financed colleges " , dhomse said . 

he said student leaders would continue demonstrating their protests against the blatant commercialisation of higher education . 

student leaders burn effigy of state minister of higher education bharat barot near dn hall cricket ground on ms university campus on monday . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/MSU-students-leaders-protest-against-payment-seat-proposal/articleshow/1932954404.cms 

Chautala-BJP relations may be strained Jul 26 , 2001 , 11.55 PM IST chandigarh : as the inld government in haryana completes two years in office on tuesday , the relationship between chief minister o p chautala and the bjp may come under strain following the induction of jat leader ajit singh into the union cabinet . 

chautala has been opposing singh 's inclusion in the ministry and had organised a number of rallies against him in saharanpur , bulandshahar and muzzafarnagar , considered the strong holds of ajit singh in western up . 

chautala 's immediate reaction was to accept the development as prime minister 's prerogative . 

but he has already made known his intentions clear by attacking the late charan singh 's son as an ' unreliable man ' . " i am a blind follower of atalji . 

but when it comes to the interest of farmers , i will not tolerate any injustice , " he remarked at a dinner press conference hosted on monday night to mark two years of his government . 

despite an uneasy relationship with bjp at the state level , chautala has had a smooth sailing in the last two years in office . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Chautala-BJP-relations-may-be-strained/articleshow/1815402830.cms 

Air traffic normal A Staff Reporter | Jul 15 , 2001 , 02.31 AM IST new delhi : the impending threat of a shiv sena demonstration kept security agencies on tenterhooks for the first half hour after pakistan president pervez musharraf 's flight touched down at 8:11 am in the capital on saturday . 

intelligence inputs received 24 hours before musharraf 's arrival had indicated that shiv sainiks were planning to wave black flags at the visiting dignitary during his journey from the airport to rashtrapati bhavan . 

but to the security personnel 's relief , musharraf 's motorcade reached its destination without a hitch . 

several flights were rescheduled at palam airport to make way for the special pakistan international airlines flight on which general musharraf arrived in the capital . 

the safdarjung airport was also shut down for some hours . 

sources at the airport said the departure timings of some routine flights were clashing with the musharraf 's arrival . 

these flights were made to leave early . 

the arrival of some other flights was staggered to create 25 minutes offree time for musharraf 's aircraft . ` ` there was no formal closure of the airport , ' ' said an airport official . 

despite a steady drizzle , the president 's schedule was followed strictly and his motorcade of about 25 cars left the airport within 25 minutes of his arrival . 

the motorcade left the airport routed through the air force station , palam . 

while the motorcade headed for rashtrapati bhavan , sources said an alert was sounded at safdarjung airport to prevent any air traffic in the area . ` ` since safdarjung airport is in the heart of the city , any air traffic , even gliders , could have posed a threat , ' ' said a security wing official . 

though no air traffic is permitted over rashtrapati bhavan , air movement around safdarjung airport was perceived as a threat because musharraf had several engagements in the area . 

earlier , traffic remained normal on national highway 8 and at the various terminals of the airport . 

traffic movement on the president 's route was stopped 10 minutes before his motorcade 's arrival and opened to public immediately after it passed by . 

several visitors at the airport and commuters on the highway praised the arrangements . ` ` i was really worried about traffic hassles but thankfully everything passed of smoothly , ' ' said gaurav talwar , a paschim vihar resident who had come to see off a friend at the domestic terminal . 

the jet airways flight to mumbai , which his friend was scheduled to take , left 15 minutes before its departure time of 8 am . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Air-traffic-normal/articleshow/85416019.cms 

Vyas demands action against Medha , Roy TNN | Aug 6 , 2001 , 11.51 PM IST ahmedabad : reacting sharply to the demonstrations by arundhati roy and medha patkar daring the supreme court to take action , narmada samarthan convenor jay narayan vyas has pleaded for stern action against this group . 

in a strongly-worded letter addressed to the chief justice of india , vyas has indicated that the demonstration made by arundhati roy and her colleagues openly defying the supreme court 's observations and even challenging the authority of the apex court " has now exposed their real face and ideology , removing the mask under which they were covered . " castigating this demonstration as a contempt of the supreme court , vyas has further observed that this is not only a defiance and insult of apex court but also a challenge to the constitutionally-appointed authority showing sheer contempt towards the democratic process and the most important institution _ the judiciary . 

vyas said these are the same people who , till it suits them , would beg before the supreme court for justice , but the moment the situation develops exposing their real intentions they will turn around 180 degrees and go to the extent of daring the apex court . " whatever the intentions , whatever may be the cause , the buck has to stop somewhere , " he said . 

he has appealed to the chief justice that these people , who are out to exploit magnanimity of the supreme court and want to go ahead undeterred with their plans , must be checked . 

he has requested to the chief justice that such people , who do not care for democratic process or the well-established judicial system in the country , may be restrained from approaching judicial or quasi-judicial authorities as they themselves have shown defiance towards the system of administration of justice . 

vyas said , " they have already lost their battle in the national and international fora . 

the popular opinion was turning against them and they are being chased out by the people from even their most safe strongholds . 

i think now they are resorting to these kind of stunts for the sake of publicity . " url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Vyas-demands-action-against-Medha-Roy/articleshow/462875747.cms 

1st anniversary of anti-power hike rally TNN | Aug 29 , 2001 , 12.35 AM IST hyderabad : processions , rallies and condolence meetings by the congress and the left parties marked the first anniversary of the protest rally against power tariff hike in which three people lost their lives on this day last year in the city . 

the three-month long agitation culminated in a bloody scene at bashirbagh on august 28 last year when a major clash between the rallyists and the police resulted in police firing in which three were killed and many were injured . 

the opposition parties had organised a ' chalo assembly ' procession which suddenly turned violent . 

the police beat up the crowd first but resorted to firing when they were unable to control the mob . 

the leaders and activists of the congress and the left parties paid floral tributes to balaswamy , ramakrishna and vishnuvardhan reddy who died in the police firing . 

the congress leaders held a meeting at the babu jagjivan ram statue near l b stadium while the left parties organised a silent march from basheerbagh to gun foundry to mark the occasion . 

addressing the congress leaders and activists , andhra pradesh congress committee ( apcc ) president m satyanarayana rao said the sacrifices made by the three youth did not go waste . 

people had expressed solidarity with them in the form of ballot in the recent elections to the local bodies . " chief minister n chandrababu naidu should respect the people 's mandate and change his policies , " he said . 

he said this was not just an opposition demand . 

even naidu 's own legislators were seeking the changes , he added . 

senior congress leaders k rosaiah , g venkataswamy , p sudhakar reddy and others participated in the meeting . 

leaders of the nine left parties -- including the cpi , cpm , cpi ( ml-nd ) , mcpi and cpi ( mljanasakhti ) -- reiterated that they would continue their struggle against the world bank-dictated anti-people reforms being pursued by the naidu government in the state . 

they demanded that the government immediately withdraw the cases filed against 22 left leaders as well as scores of activists during the agitation . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/1st-anniversary-of-anti-power-hike-rally/articleshow/727307023.cms 

Registrar suffers heart attack after wordy duel THE TIMES OF INDIA NEWS SERVICE | Jul 21 , 2001 , 12.25 AM IST bhavnagar : the issue of self-financed ba and b.com . 

courses in colleges here took a serious turn on wednesday after exchange of words between the abvp leaders and the university registrar bharatsinh parmar . 

the latter suffered a mild heart attack a few moments later and was taken to hospital . 

the university employees union went on flash strike and its president c v galani said the strike would continue until employees were promsied protection . 

university sources said abvp leaders , including two executive council members shailendrasinh gohil and raju pandya , had come to meet the vice-chancellor to request him to convert the self-financed fyba class at the samaldas college into a regular one . 

as vice-chancellor bharat oza was out of station , they went to the registrar , who pleaded that he had no powers to take such a decision . 

then followed an exchange of words between them . 

the registrar asked the police to remove students from the university building . 

he could not endure the stress and complained of chest pain . 

he was first taken to a government hospital and later to a nursing home . 

meanwhile , three non-teaching associations and bhavnagar university pradhyapak pariwar on thursday observed strike and sought permanent security measures . " it is high time the authorities took a bold stand based on the university rules and teachers and administrators need to realise that enough damage has already be done to the university " , a senior professor lamented . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Registrar-suffers-heart-attack-after-wordy-duel/articleshow/1145203021.cms 

Handloom weavers in a pall of gloom TNN | Sep 6 , 2001 , 01.23 AM IST hubli : faced with a double-edged sword , the condition of handloom weavers in this region is worse than the worst . 

if the failure of the karnataka handloom development corporation ( khdc ) to provide raw materials has rendered them jobless on one side , the severe drought has only compounded their lives on the other . 

no rains , hence no work . 

there are about 16,000 families in north karnataka who are reeling under severe distress for the last two months with no work in hand and no other alternative either . 

on wednesday , the weavers staged a protest demonstration in front of the khdc office demanding the authorities to supply raw materials to the community . 

the vice-president of the state weavers ' association , n.g. malawade , said the weavers have no work to do for the last two months with no raw material reaching them . 

due to scarce rainfall , they are not in a position to take up any other employment . 

" " when the government announced ` food for work ' scheme for the farmers , why have the weavers been left out , " he questioned . 

he urged the government to immediately announce a relief package for the weavers ' community and demanded a wage of rs 50 per day to the weavers till they are supplied with the raw material . 

malawade warned the government of intensified agitation , if the authorities failed to take note of their situation . 

the state weavers ' association vice-president termed the shifting of the khdc office to hubli -- which was seen as an attempt to bring about proper decentralisation of power and access to the weaving community -- " a mere eyewash " . 

he said some vested interests in bangalore would retain important decision-making bodies to " call the shots " . 

to this , he pointed the shifting of an important office which was monitoring yarn purchase to bangalore just a few days back . 

khdc managing director v. manjula , after receiving the memorandum from the protestors , assured that the raw material would reach them within a week . 

asking the protestors to cooperate with the government , manjula said the government is committed to bail out the weavers and thus , it has increased the khdc fund from rs 6 crore to rs 12 crore . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Handloom-weavers-in-a-pall-of-gloom/articleshow/1675531755.cms 

Police arrest teachers for burning ESMA notification TNN | Sep 10 , 2001 , 11.28 PM IST surat : the city police arrested several hundreds of teachers from the city and the nearby areas in the district on monday afternoon on charges of creating disturbances and resorting to some unlawful activities including burning of the official notification invoking essential services maintenance act ( esma ) on the striking teachers . 

according to police sources , the teachers were kept at police parade ground in athwalines for a few hours and later , they were released with a warning not to resort to any such activities that would deteriorate law and order situation in the city . 

meanwhile , a meeting was convened by the district collector and the district education officer , p n dave , on monday evening to take stock of the situation , and also how to contain any untoward incident . 

dave told tnn that stringent actions could not be initiated against the striking teachers , as the government would like to be lenient in this matter . 

he informed that four more schools resumed their teaching activities on monday . 

in all , out of 252 schools on strike , 24 were reported to be open on monday , according to sources in district education office . 

more schools were likely to open in the next couple of days , dave said . 

sources in the school teachers ' associations said a big rally would be taken out on tuesday if the government fails to reconsider the whole matter . 

police sources said keeping in view of the proposed rally on tuesday , all required bandobast was being chalked out to prevent any untoward incident from taking place . 

some of the school managements this correspondent contacted expressed their inability to put an end to the present crisis . 

sources in st xavier 's school said the management was with the striking teachers , whereas the trustees of v d wadiwala school at adajan tried to convince the striking teachers about the issue , but to no avail . 

in sanskar bharati school at new rander road , with the principal being on strike , no efforts on the part of the school management were taken to arrive at any conclusion in this regard . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Police-arrest-teachers-for-burning-ESMA-notification/articleshow/2020028184.cms 

Communal tension grips Dabhoi town TNN | Sep 23 , 2001 , 11.58 PM IST vadodara : tension gripped dabhoi town near here after groups belonging to different communities clashed on sunday afternoon over an apparently petty issue . 

consequently , 11 shops were ransacked by the mobs . 

tension prevailed in the area after a girl washing clothes at a public place was allegedly manhandled by a woman belonging to a different community . 

a bitter quarrel that followed took a " communal turn " and mobs belonging to different communities went on a spree ransacking and charring shops in the area . " eleven shops in the town were ransacked and attempts were made to burn down some of them . 

the shops belong to both the communities , " said district collector and magistrate bhagyesh jha . 

jha informed that following the incident , various types of rumours were doing rounds in the area about the possible reasons for the vandalisation . " the mamlatdar and deputy superintendent of police at dabhoi have been asked to keep a check on any possibilities of a misinformation campaign in the area , " he said . 

according to officials , a group of about 50 policemen were rushed to the spot to control the situation . 

district superintendent of police keshav kumar is also camping in dabhoi . 

sources said that arrangements for more forces in the area were being made . 

special inspector general of police ( vadodara range ) deepak swaroop said that the police was keeping a vigil in the area to prevent any further deterioration of the situation there . " the flare-up was limited to a particular locality and did not spill over to other parts of the city , " swaroop said . 

he added that the situation in the town was under control . " there is peace in the town . 

however , we have to take extra care to prevent any deterioration of the situation , " he said . 

swaroop said that the police have so far successfully managed to prevent any anti-social elements from taking advantage of the situation . " there was a possibility of such elements using the incident to their advantage , but this has not happened , " he said . 

no arrests were made by the dabhoi police till this report went to print . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Communal-tension-grips-Dabhoi-town/articleshow/641970013.cms 

CPI(M) stages protest rally in Bhavnagar Sep 29 , 2001 , 09.56 PM IST bhavnagar : the bhavnagar unit of communist party of india cpi(m) on friday staged a demonstration opposite the local post office here to protest against the liberalised policy of the central government , rising prices of essential commodities , curbs on recruitment in jobs and indiscriminate imports that had affected the small-scale industries and farmers . 

however , when the rallyists tried to enter the post office , the police arrested them . 

according to a cpi(m) release , the police arrested 4,763 workers of the party for trying to storm the post office . 

the rally was led by the party 's state secretary , subodh mehta . 

a large number of students , workers , farmers and women participated in the procession . 

kheda dsp headquarters shifted to nadiad nadiad : the state government has decided to shift the district superintendent of police headquarters ( kheda district ) from kheda to nadiad . 

minister of state for home haren pandya has given an assurance to this effect . 

following bifurcation of kheda district into kheda and anand , most of the offices in kheda district had shifted from kheda to nadiad . 

however , the dsp headquarters continued to function from kheda , which used to put people in great inconvenience . 

rajkot admn gears up to meet any war-like situation rajkot : the district administration has geared itself to meet any war-like situation in view of the recent terrorist attacks in the us . 

district collector p n patel held a meeting to chalk out a plan to provide maximum protection to communication links , water supply , highways power and water supply schemes , besides taking measures to maintain essential supplies in case of any crisis . 

junagadh : the president of the junagadh unit of shiv sena , shankersinh thakur , in a memorandum submitted to district collector sunayna tomar demanded immediate action against mushrooming of tuition classes in the city , whose organisers are allegedly associated with government colleges and schools . 

thakur said these tuition classes charge exorbitant fees , which are beyond the reach of common students . 

this also affects overall standard of education , he added . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/CPIM-stages-protest-rally-in-Bhavnagar/articleshow/311996326.cms 

Kudremukh gets nod to go ahead with mining THE TIMES OF INDIA NEWS SERVICE | Jul 24 , 2001 , 10.48 PM IST mangalore \ bangalore : the centre has granted kudremukh iron ore company limited ( kiocl ) a three-month temporary work permit to continue mining operations from wednesday . 

the letter was received by the kiocl bangalore office on tuesday . 

according to a senior official at the bangalore office , the order has also been sent by the centre to the state government and the same is being processed by forest minister k.h. ranganath and the department of mines and geology . 

the official expected the permit to come at any moment . 

the order states : ` ` the work permit has been extended for three months , pending the supreme court decision . 

' ' a public interest litigation has been filed in the apex court by environmentalists against extending mining lease to the company . 

( kiocl ) chairman and managing director s . 

murari was n't available for comment . 

however , on monday , murari said the mining lease would automatically be renewed if nothing adverse is heard or till a direction from the government is issued . 

murari had claimed that according to the mines act , the old agreement would continue , unless the government decides otherwise . 

till late on tuesday night , the company had not got any communication from the government . 

walkout in assembly : meanwhile , five bjp members representing the coastal region , walked out of the assembly on tuesday demanding a statement from chief minister krishna on the mining lease . 

following media reports of a three-month extension granted by the government to the company , bjp members araga jnanendra and vishweshwar hegde kageri appealed to krishna during zero hour to clarify the state government 's position . 

however , the cm did not respond , while mines and geology minister v. muniyappa said : ` ` the decision is in the centre 's hands . 

we do not want to say anything till the public interest litigation filed in the supreme court is disposed of . 

' ' unhappy with this , jnanendra , kageri , n . 

yogesh bhat , prabhakar bangera and s . 

angara walked out shouting anti-government slogans . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Kudremukh-gets-nod-to-go-ahead-with-mining/articleshow/699000706.cms 

Nude parade : CPM wants judicial probe TNN | Aug 30 , 2001 , 10.15 PM IST bellary : the cpm on thursday demanded judicial as well as cod inquiries into the vanenur incident in which a dalit woman was stripped and paraded naked for more than two hours on sunday evening . 

cpm karnataka secretariat member s.y. gurushantha told reporters the cod inquiry should find out the lapse on the part of police and why they failed to frame a strong case against the seven accused . 

judicial inquiry is necessary to unearth reasons why continuous assaults and humiliation are unleashed on dalit and weaker sections of the society . 

he demanded that the government hold the deputy commissioner and police superintendent responsible for their " failure to initiate strong action against the culprits " . 

the cpm worker said party 's fact-finding team that visited the village found out the following points : political patronage encouraged the nayak community to commit such a barbaric act ; most nayak community members own lands ; they are hand-in-glove with the police ; those who rendered yellamma naked had earlier assaulted members of dhobi community . 

gurushantha alleged that the culprits have strong support from the congress leaders of the district , particularly the legislator representing the constituency of which vanenur is a part . 

therefore , he urged both union and karnataka governments to study the vanenur case in detail . 

gurushantha said the cpm and allied parties will launch agitation in the district and taluk headquarters from monday seeking action against the accused . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Nude-parade-CPM-wants-judicial-probe/articleshow/1304698214.cms 

Police , NGOs differ on lathicharge | TNN | Aug 10 , 2001 , 10.02 PM IST mysore : a mudslinging campaign is on over lathicharge and arrest of members of voluntary organisations , with rival groups accusing each other of behaving indecently . 

the police had intervened in a protest taken out by ngos last tuesday , even taking into custody two of the leaders . 

the protest was over the mysterious death of a maid servant in the city . 

according to the police , abusive language against city police commissioner chandrashekar by agitators provoked the lathicharge . 

ngo leaders , however , contended it was a peaceful gathering . 

the police officers told the times of india , the ` ` indecent behaviour ' ' of a section of agitators with the police commissioner , made the subordinates resort to lathicharge . ` ` no police officer will keep quiet when somebody abuses his senior , ' ' said a senior officer . 

language used by the group was ` ` filthy and intolerable ' ' . 

but the ngo leaders denied the allegation . ` ` there was no provocation from agitators as many were women . 

the police officers beat them without any reason , ' ' says former mayor narayan . ` ` if the things happening to agitators is any indication , it appears the police planned the attack . 

i suspect a conspiracy behind the attack on ramdas , who is respected by many in the city , ' ' an ngo leader said . 

the police department 's refusal to arrest the landlord who employed lakshmi , an orphan girl , and file a case against him , has made people suspect their action against agitators . 

lakshmi died under mysterious circumstances . 

ngo leaders ' argument that the police want to shield the accused seems to hold water as anand has not been arrested even six days after the incident . 

state education and district incharge minister h . 

vishwanath on thursday said the police cannot arrest lakshmi 's employer without an inquiry . ` ` can the police book a murder case against a person on mere ground that a complaint has been filed against him , ' ' he asked . ` ` first , the police will ascertain facts before arresting anybody . 

' ' ` ` let us first find out whether there is any violation of law by protesters . 

if not , we should find out whether police committed any excesses on them ( agitators ) , ' ' he said , urging the people not to politicise the issue . 

the minister said , he would urge chief minister s.m. krishna to appoint an independent officer to ascertain the truth about tuesday 's incident of violence on processionists . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Police-NGOs-differ-on-lathicharge/articleshow/824454552.cms 

Court seeks proof of SIMI activities TNN | Oct 3 , 2001 , 11.19 PM IST new delhi : a city court on wednesday directed the police to produce audio and video recordings of the activities of a banned outfit simi , in support of its allegations that the outfit has been involved in unlawful activities . 

metropolitan magistrate vinod kumar passed this order during the hearing of the bail pleas of three simi activists . 

the police opposed bail saying they had audio and video cassettes to show that ban was justified . 

the magistrate also reserved for thursday his order on the bail plea of municipal councillor from okhla , asif mohammad khan , who was arrested on charges of causing communal discord by printing and circulating posters proclaiming a war between christianity and islam . 

the magistrate adjourned till friday the further hearing of the bail plea of simi activists , saif nachan , mohammad khalid and irfan khan , who were arrested last week along with their national president shahid badr , on charges of raising provocative slogans in protest against the ban on the organisation . 

simi 's lawyer feroz khan gazi argued that while imposing the ban , the government did not follow proper procedure as laid down in sections 3 and 10 of the unlawful activities ( prevention ) act , 1967 . 

gazi said before the government went ahead with the ban , it should have first given notice to the party concerned and notify the act . 

then , a tribunal has to be formed , which government did not , he argued . 

as far as the party magazine islamic movement is concerned , the magazine was not banned by the government , so any article written in the magazine could not become the basis of a ban on the party , gazi told the court . 

but the prosecution contended that it has enough proof to show that simi has been engaged in unlawful activities , which includes several audio and video cassettes . 

the magistrate asked the police to produce these cassettes on friday . 

taking exception to an article published in a pamphlet , the magistrate said : ' ' the police file contains a magazine islamic movement . 

the article ' ' taliban , bamiyan and buddha ' ' is enough to show that it has been published with the sole aim to hurt the feelings of and cause ill-will to the followers of lord buddha . ' ' url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Court-seeks-proof-of-SIMI-activities/articleshow/1177671188.cms 

Drought-hit Kolar suffers rain damage worth Rs 50 lakh TNN | Sep 19 , 2001 , 12.12 AM IST kolar : heavy rain lashed the drought-hit kolar district during the last couple of days giving the much-needed relief to both the farmers and also the officials . 

kolar taluk recorded the highest rainfall of the season on friday night ( 81 mm ) . 

while gowribidanur received 71.6 mm , sidlagatta received 68 mm , gudibanda - 54 mm , bangarpet - 31 mm , chikkaballapur - 58 mm , chintamani - 55 mm , mulbagal - 41 mm , srinivaspur - 75 mm , bagepalli - 32 mm , and malur - 56 mm . 

the rain also caused damage to property in the district . 

last week , seven houses in rahamathnagar in kolar town collapsed . 

however , there were no casualties . 

the residents of rahamathnagar who saw water from the nearby feeder channel flowing into their houses immediately sounded an alarm at around 2 am . 

the municipal councillor k.n. thyagaraju , called up fire services station and also informed the municipal commissioner sarfarz khan . 

the fire personnel swung into action and averted possible damage . 

the municipal commissioner put the total damage due to rain at rs 50 lakh . 

meanwhile k . 

srinivasa gowda , mla kolar visited the affected places and instructed the authorities to take suitable steps to prevent any further loss . 

he also directed the officials to explore the possibility of providing houses under ashraya scheme to those affected . 

bjp sets up cattle shed : the district unit of bjp in kolar district has started a ` goshala ' ( cattle shed ) near muduvadi village here , in order to assist the farmers of the drought-hit district . 

the shed is located on the farms belonging to v. jayaram , vice-president of district unit of bjp . 

y . 

surendra gowda , president of the unit said the state government had failed to take steps to provide relief to the drought affected farmers . 

he urged the government to provide fodder needed for running the goshala . 

he however said if the government failed to do so , the party would arrange for the fodder too . 

he urged the farmers of the district who are unable to feed their cattle to rush their cattle to the goshala . 

over 12 pairs of cattle have already been provided shelter in the goshala , he said . 

dss protest : hundreds of dalit sangarsha samithi ( dss ) workers staged an agitation on friday by dressing the effigy of the chief minister with a pant . 

the agitators were protesting against the nude parade of a dalit woman in venanur in bellary district . 

earlier , a huge procession was taken out to mark the occasion . 

the march which began from nachikethanilaya culminated at the office of the deputy commissioner . 

m . 

thimmaiah , convenor of dss alleged the government has failed to check the atrocities on dalits . 

chikkanarasimhaiah , head quarters assistant to deputy commissioner received the memorandum . 

new sports clubs : the bjp yuva morcha will soon start ` " kamal clubs ' in all the taluks of the state in order to inspire youth to develop sporting spirit , said raghunatha rao mallikapur , president of state bjp yuva morcha . 

addressing a press conference here at kolar on friday , mallikapur said that the youth have to be guided in a proper way and should be encouraged to cultivate constructive attitude and in this direction the proposed clubs would go a long way . 

stating that bjp yuva morcha was committed to the interests of the youth , he said the unit would work for the betterment of the youth by eliminating mallikapur announced of a national level mega conference of over one lakh youth to be held in agra on october 13 and 14 . 

bjp stages protest : hundreds of bjp workers on tuesday staged a protest march in kolar in response to the terror attack on world trade center in new york allegedly by osama bin laden . 

the procession culminated at the mecci square where an effigy of osama bin laden was burnt . 

y . 

surendra gowda , president of bjp district unit criticised the attack on wtc and underlined the importance of concrete steps to put an end to the menace of ultras who are playing with the lives of innocent people . 

k.v. suresh kumar , convenor of state auto morcha , said ultras should be dealt with an iron hand . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Drought-hit-Kolar-suffers-rain-damage-worth-Rs-50-lakh/articleshow/778998618.cms 

50 cobra eggs perish TNN | Sep 12 , 2001 , 11.09 PM IST shimoga : the 50 cobra eggs found near mundigesara in the heggodu forest near sagar in june have perished due to lack of proper care . 

the incident aroused a lot of interest and subsequent agitation by the people of sagar as dfo shivaraj singh allegedly manhandled manmath kumar -- a herpetologist . 

it may be recalled that the dfo raided the house of manmath kumar who had collected the eggs from the forest with the help of people to hatch them . 

the dfo manhandled him and also photographer krishna , who had taken photographs of the cobra laying eggs in the forest . 

the agitated people staged a dharna in front of the dfo office for two days . 

but with the intervention of district incharge minister kagodu timmappa , who assured action against the dfo , people withdrew their agitation . 

later the dfo sent the eggs to bannerghatta national park for hatching . 

it is now confirmed by the forest department that the eggs have not been hatched due to excess heat and lack of proper humidity . 

meanwhile , krishna , the photographer , has filed a petition in a sagar court against the dfo for manhandling him . 

the court has permitted the petition and the sagar rural police have registered a case against the dfo . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/50-cobra-eggs-perish/articleshow/149973002.cms 

No let-up in doctors ' strike THE TIMES OF INDIA NEWS SERVICE | Jul 25 , 2001 , 11.25 PM IST bangalore : services in government hospitals in the city and across the state continued to be paralysed for the third day on wednesday as a result of the strike call given by the karnataka state junior doctors ' association ( ksjda ) . 

overcrowded outpatient departments ( opds ) were the order of the day at victoria , bowring and vani vilas hospitals with medical officers posted to tide over the crisis being outnumbered by the large number of patients seeking treatment . 

the crisis seems to have been aggravated by the large number of rural patients turning up in bangalore for medical care . 

this follows the government 's decision to post medical officers from rural public health centres to man posts in the three major city hospitals . 

it was indeed a sad state of affairs for the sick as they had to wait for hours before a doctor could see them . 

functioning of most departments were also affected . 

all elective surgeries have been postponed by the authorities in the hospitals in a bid to overcome the problem . 

fresh admissions in all the hospitals have been stopped barring emergency cases which the hospitals are making a herculean effort to deal with . 

in fact , on wednesday morning attendants of a boy who met with an accident had to wait for over 25 minutes at victoria hospital before he got attention . 

elsewhere , the hospitals wore a deserted look . 

the medical , post-operative and gynaecological wards were mostly bereft of patients as no surgeries were lined up . 

other than labour emergencies , no other gynaecological cases were taken up . 

the striking doctors also held inconclusive talks with vice-chancellor of the rajiv gandhi university of health sciences , dr chandrasekhar shetty . 

according to a release from the ksjda , the talks remained deadlocked over issues such as the implementation of the mci regulations of 2000 . ` ` he told us that the same set of examiners for theory and practicals was not possible because of the inability of the university to find suitable examiners to carry out both functions , ' ' dr h.g. vijaykumar , president of ksjda , said . 

meanwhile , the striking junior doctors received support from undergraduate students in bangalore and other towns such as kolar and tumkur who boycotted classes . 

the doctors took out a rally in victoria hospital . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/No-let-up-in-doctors-strike/articleshow/1609318351.cms 

TN to sound out PM on Cauvery row TNN | Sep 8 , 2001 , 10.55 PM IST chennai : the all-party meeting convened by the tamil nadu government on saturday decided to send a delegation to impress upon prime minister a.b. vajpayee the need to urge karnataka to release cauvery water to save the standing kuruvai crops in the delta region . 

the meeting , chaired by chief minister j . 

jayalalitha and attended by leaders of 44 parties in the state including the dmk , unanimously resolved to send a delegation , comprising mps and mlas of the state , leaders of various parties and representatives of delta farmers ' associations . 

state education minister m . 

thambidurai and public works minister n . 

dhalavai sundaram will lead the delegation . 

briefing reporters on the outcome of the meeting , jayalalitha said in view of the urgency , the delegation will leave for the capital on monday . 

on the quantum of water the state needed , she said at present there is 97 tmc ft water in the four reservoirs in karnataka . 

karnataka requires only 58 tmc ft water to meet its requirements and it could very well afford to share 39 tmc ft water . 

even if it released one tmc ft a day , it will help tamil nadu save the kuruvai crop . 

asked whether she would ask the prime minister to convene the cauvery river authority meeting , jayalalitha said , ` ` i do n't think it will serve any purpose . ' ' earlier , addressing the all-party meeting , she said the authority , headed by the prime minister , was ` ` toothless ' ' and it could not implement the interim award of the cauvery water disputes tribunal , directing karnataka to release 205 tmc ft water in an irrigation year . 

the dmk members in the assembly staged a walkout protesting the ` unclear ' stand of the government on the cauvery river water authority . 

though senior dmk leader duraimurugan wanted to know the government 's stand on the issue , speaker k . 

kalimuthu said it was a ` sensitive ' topic and requested the member not to rake it up . 

however , duraimurugan maintained members were being kept in the dark on an important issue and led his party out . 

finance minister c . 

ponnaiyan said the dmk stood exposed on the issue as it could not prevail upon the centre to instruct karnataka to release water . 

dmk chief m . 

karunanidhi told reporters that the government should insist on vajpayee convening the cauvery river authority meet earlier as such a meeting is beneficial to the state . 

vajpayee must ensure that chief ministers of all riparian states attend the meeting . 

these states -- apart from karnataka and tamil nadu -- include pondicherry and kerala . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/TN-to-sound-out-PM-on-Cauvery-row/articleshow/1820476554.cms 

Judicial probe into clashes likely : Kharge Sep 22 , 2001 , 10.22 PM IST gulbarga : the karnataka government would consider ordering a judicial inquiry into the communal clashes which claimed three lives in hubli , once a detailed report was received from the district and the police administration in this regard , state home minister mallikarjuna kharge on saturday said . 

he told reporters , the violence was triggered during a rally organised by the vishwa hindu parishad ( vhp ) on the occasion of the 75th birthday celebrations of its international president ashok singhal . 

he said , additional director general of police ( law and order ) m.d. singh is camping in the trouble-torn city . 

kharge claimed the situation was limping back to normalcy and the day curfew would be relaxed accordingly . 

refusing to point an accusing finger on any individual or organisation , he said , an official report on the incidents was expected to throw light on the issue . 

once the report was submitted , the cabinet would discuss the issue and decide the future course of action . 

kharge clarified that the sudden transfer of the hubli-dharwad city commissioner m.y. patil had nothing to do with the violence . 

it was a routine administrative transfer , he added . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Judicial-probe-into-clashes-likely-Kharge/articleshow/1368120601.cms 

Old Hubli tense after clashes HUBLI : The Old Hubli area in the twin cities has turned into a sensitive pocket , following recent clashes . 

TNN | Aug 13 , 2001 , 11.20 PM IST hubli : the old hubli area in the twin cities has turned into a sensitive pocket , following recent clashes . 

if the first major clash was over property , leading to lathi-charge , firing , arson and looting , the other two incidents were over " trivial " matters . 

what is giving the police sleepless nights here is the attempt by vested interests to give a communal colour even to a roadside argument . 

this was proved right when mohammed sadiq of islampur in hubli , an employee of kptcl , appeared before the police on monday . 

sadiq , with head injuries , is said to be one of the victims of friday night 's clash in durgad bail area leading to tense hours in the twin cities . 

he has lodged a complaint against the other group in which former bjp corporator nandagopal sapare is also a party . 

police sources told the times of india , it was sadiq who was first attacked by the rival group over smoking a cigarette . 

in fact , sources added , sadiq did not want to lodge a complaint but was forced to following the rival group creating a wrong impression that sapare was the " victim " . 

it is believed an ego clash had snowballed into a controversy , with bjp and bajrang dal activists joining the fray . 

it may be recalled that sapare along with friends were dining in a hotel late night , when sapare objected to sadiq lighting a cigarette . 

this led to heated argument between the two . 

sadiq and his followers were caught unawares the next day , when supporters of sapare staged a protest in front of the police commissioner 's office demanding action against the " culprits " . 

the state convenor of bajrang dal mutalik , and bjp corporators led the protest . 

on monday , the muslim community leaders met police officers and demanded action against " troublemongers " for the friday night incident . 

it may be remembered that after the major clash over the hotel some time ago , ne more incident was reported in kamripeth area . 

this was also a fight between two armed and inebriated groups , which later turned into a communal clash . 

the police commissioner y.r. patil has already written to the government about the " sensitive nature " of the area . 

when contacted , patil asserted , the police department was all prepared to tackle any situation . 

he added that there was no need for extra reinforcements at the moment . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Old-Hubli-tense-after-clashes/articleshow/2101185426.cms 

5,000 teachers march to Surat collectorate TNN | Sep 12 , 2001 , 12.56 AM IST surat : over five thousand school teachers took out a rally from makaipul to the district collectorate at nanpura on tuesday afternoon to protest against the government notification invoking essential services maintenance act ( esma ) on the striking teachers in the state . 

according to police officials , no untoward incident took place and the rally went off peacefully . 

the police had made heavy security arrangement to prevent any unlawful activities by the rallyists . 

sources in the teachers ' association told tnn they would stick to only peaceful means unless the situation demanded otherwise . 

collector sangeeta singh said of the 262 grant-in-aid schools on strike in the district , 81 were reported to have resumed teaching activities on tuesday . 

the focus now was to persuade the teachers to refrain from the strike as that would affect studies , particularly in classes x and xii , she said . 

however , as part of alternative arrangements the district administration has prepared a list of b ed students of the district , unemployed youth with teaching qualification registered with the local employment exchange and all retired teachers . 

singh informed that power has been delegated to additional , deputy and deputy development officers to appoint teachers for those schools where the teachers were on strike . 

they would be appointed as visiting teachers and would be paid rs 200 for taking four sessions a day . 

citing these arrangements as stop-gap measures , singh told tnn that a fresh appeal was being made to striking teachers to call off the strike in the interest of the students . 

actions were also being initiated against striking teachers who were not permanent through various administrative measures , she said . 

the alternative arrangement for teaching were being taken in schools where the managements had offered their co-operation to the authorities , singh informed . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/5000-teachers-march-to-Surat-collectorate/articleshow/1756751262.cms 

Dharna as jeep hits RBI employee TNN | Sep 11 , 2001 , 01.25 AM IST bangalore : commotion prevailed on nrupathunga road ( made one-way recently ) on monday afternoon , when a kptc jeep knocked down a reserve bank of india employee who was crossing the road . 

following the incident , a large number of bank employees staged a dharna on the road demanding action against the " erring " jeep driver and construction of a road hump opposite the bank . 

traffic was disrupted for a while on this busy road . 

the employees complained of heavy traffic disturbing pedestrian movement near the bank . 

senior police officers including dcp ( traffic ) rushed to the spot and defused the situation by assuring the emplyees of immediate action . 

bank employee boregowda is undergoing treatment at st . 

martha 's hospital . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Dharna-as-jeep-hits-RBI-employee/articleshow/1067213089.cms 

Agitating students caned , over 100 hurt TNN | Sep 28 , 2001 , 12.16 AM IST bangalore : all hell broke loose on thursday morning at the university of agricultural sciences ( uas ) when the police lathi-charged hundreds of students , who were protesting against handing over a part of the campus for the proposed biotechnology park . 

at least a hundred students , faculty members and non-teaching staff were injured in the police action at uas ' gandhi krishik vidya kendra . 

the vice-chancellor has suspended classes till monday despite jeering by students . 

police commissioner t . 

madiyal said prohibitory orders under section 144 of the crpc have been clamped on the campus . 

the trouble started around 8.30 a.m. when the students gathered outside administrative office demanding that vice-chancellor a.m. krishnappa stall the transfer of 100 - acre land for developing the biotech park . 

agitated students questioned the legality of the handover of land where experiments on several plant species are taking place . 

a student said , " more than 40 species of eucalyptus , mango and sandalwood trees are grown here for germplasm experiments . " when the authorities ' assurances did not satisfy them , the students rushed to the spot where trees were being felled . 

and embraced the trees , reminiscent of sunderlal bahuguna-led chipko movement of the 1970 s and 80 s that saw a 15 - year moratorium on tree-felling . 

then , the police charged into action , beating up students . 

in the melee , director ( instruction ) p.g. chengappa , who was trying to pacify the students , faculty members gracy and savitramma suffered injuries . 

shashi , a hosteller , was also beaten up . 

the students who lost their cool started pelting the policemen with stones in a battle that lasted more than three hours . 

at least nine girl students were thrashed by the police . 

students alleged that they were chased right into the precincts of library and administrative office during the targeted attack . 

even those who had holed up inside toilet were not spared . 

chetan , a student who was running a high temperature , was allegedly dragged and battered . 

shards , smashed flowerpots and mutilated trees stand witness to the violence . 

anticipating trouble , the police top brass had called in four platoons of armed police along with six police inspectors , two acps and a dcp . 

hoysala squads had patrolled the campus since 7.30 p.m. on wednesday . 

describing the damage to the building and property as " immense " , the vice-chancellor said : " we 'll take steps to prevent encroachment of land . 

we are appealing to the government to reconsider the decision . " he said the police had been requested to withdraw prohibitory orders " immediately " . 

an emergency board meeting will be convened soon to resolve the land transfer issue , he added . 

additional commissioner ( crime ) jyothi prakash mirji and dcp ( north ) s.k. venugopal , assisted by inspectors , led the charge . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Agitating-students-caned-over-100-hurt/articleshow/1755447644.cms 

Govt fights shy of using ESMA TNN | Sep 12 , 2001 , 12.20 AM IST gandhinagar : even as the teachers ' strike entered 14th day on monday the state government restrained itself from putting into effect the provisions of esma . 

the government announced a contingency plan under which trained teachers will be appointed with a daily wage of rs 200 to resume teaching activities in 5,800 schools from tuesday . 

speaking to reporters after a high-level meeting convened by chief minister keshubhai patel , minister of state for information and higher education bharat barot claimed that the total number of schools which reopened on monday stood at 2,100 . 

he reiterated that it was not possible to concede to the demand for vehicle allowance at this stage as the state was already burdened by drought and earthquake . " we have decided to give striking teachers more time , and will declare the strike illegal only after some time . " however , he did not spell out any deadline for initiating any action against teachers under esma . 

district education officers have been asked to appoint teachers as per the plan evolved by the government to deal with the situation . 

referring to the token strike by non-teaching employees of universities , the minister said there was no question of the state government sanctioning vehicle allowance as the non-teaching employees were governed under university grants commission rules . 

the youth wing of the bjp and other voluntary and educational institutions have started mobilising public opinion against the strike by organising meetings of parents . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Govt-fights-shy-of-using-ESMA/articleshow/1145955296.cms 

School board that ca n't count | TNN | Sep 13 , 2001 , 11.06 PM IST pathankot : the september tests of the punjab education board , which started on wednesday , are not going as planned . 

the board had decided to take the inhouse examinations of certain government schools into their own hands . 

maybe they felt that the schools would not be able to see the exams through . 

interestingly , they too have not done a great job . 

reports say , the school teachers had collected " paper money " , worth crores , from the students . 

now that exams are underway , the question papers arriving at exam centres are less than required . 

talking to the times of india gurdaspur teachers ' union general secretary subhash sharma , said , on thursday , that the board had collected " crores of rupees " from students for the supply of question papers . 

' ' they have bungled everything up , ' ' he adds . " there are never enough question papers . 

both the students and the invigilators suffer , ' ' alleges sharma . 

the teachers , then have to write down the question paper on the blackboard , and answer students ' questions , each time a doubt arises , he adds . 

president of the dhar kalan block teachers ' union prem sagar , said that in most cases , photocopies of the question paper has to be handed out to the students . 

sagar charged the district education office ( s ) , of having forcibly collected money from students of 107 government middle schools . 

he adds that only four question papers , of a particular paper , were sent for class iv , three for class vii , and only six for class viii . 

he said things were no different at the schools of upparla thara , bhatwan , bhamlada , hara , narayanpur jandwal and dukhniali . 

sharma says , ' ' though the number of students in class x in government school dhar kalan is 56 , mathematics question papers have yet to reach the deo office . 

the exam is slated for september 18 . 

' ' the gurdaspur teachers ' union criticised the board for not supplying a , b , c , d , ( four sets of question papers ) , as was planned , alleging only a and b sets arrive . 

water supply hit supply of drinking water has been hit in the city , due the strike of the pathankot municipal council employees on thursday . 

the mc employees are protesting the government 's move to abolish octroi . 

the employees , who held a rally here , urged the government not to go ahead with the decision . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/School-board-that-cant-count/articleshow/356631692.cms 

Ganesh idol immersion passes off peacefully TNN | Sep 2 , 2001 , 03.18 AM IST hyderabad : barring a few minor incidents of stone-throwing in the old city of hyderabad , the annual ganesh idol immersion passed peacefully on saturday . 

over 7,000 ganesh idols of varying sizes were immersed in the hussainsagar . 

police said a few stones were hurled at an idol that was being transported in a lorry at edi bazar at yakutpura around 1 pm which caused mild tension in the area . 

the stone-thrower escaped even as the police swung into action to catch him . 

another incident of stonethrowing was reported from osmanpura in mirchowk police limits at 6 pm . 

dcp ( south zone ) umapathy said some miscreants threw stones at a ganesh idol from a bylane . 

police resorted to a mild lathicharge to disperse the crowds which had gathered . 

a minaret of mosque was also damaged in the stone pelting . 

the procession started from balapur on the city outskirts and wound its way through chandrayangutta , kandikalgate , falaknuma , shalibanda , charminar , madina , afzalgunj , m j market , abids , basheerbagh , liberty and ended at hussainsagar . 

the main procession started at balapur at 9.30 am , two hours behind schedule . 

it was stopped by the police for 20 minutes at shalibanda to allow muslims to finish their afternoon prayers in the mecca mosque near charminar . 

the bhagyanagar ganesh utsav samithi ( bgus ) obliged the police request to switch off their loud speakers for about 10 minutes . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/Ganesh-idol-immersion-passes-off-peacefully/articleshow/1871234174.cms 

Chikka Vidhana Soudha plan deals a big blow to heritage | THE TIMES OF INDIA NEWS SERVICE | Jul 11 , 2001 , 12.42 AM IST bangalore : the sm krishna government is planning to construct a building adjoining vidhana soudha in order to accommodate all ministers and their staff . 

this is estimated to cost rs 130 crore . ` ` with the national policy stressing on downsizing government and with added emphasis on decentralisation , dispersal and e-governance , this move comes as a surprise , ' ' says one concerned architect . 

not only that , building a ` chikka ' vidhana soudha would mean having to demolish several structures , including an old government press which has arches that date back to more than 150 years . 

these arches are protected by the protection of national monuments act . 

in fact it for this very reason that the 25 - year-old bangalore urban art commission was dissolved by the chief minister in march end this year . 

its members lodged a strong protest against the move to construct another vidhana soudha and in turn the commission was scrapped . 

it is believed that the proposed mini soudha will replicate the old one in form and style and will occupy an area of 10 acres . 

about 60 trees will have to be chopped down . ` ` traffic both vehicular and pedestrian is another issue that needs to be addressed , ' ' says an environmentalist . 

some time ago , timely action by vigilant citizens helped abort a government plan to turn a portion of cubbon park into a rest house for legislators . 

city architects and other concerned citizens point out that the state government should explore other options like optimal use of the huge vidhana soudha and ms buildings before it goes in for such a drastic and expensive option . 

the bangalore urban art commission ( buac ) which prides itself on being an apolitical body , has received its share of bouquets and brickbats over the years . 

it protested when charles correa came up with a plan to make a multi-storeyed building which is today known as vishveshwaraya towers . 

the buac had instituted best maintained buildings and garden awards which were presented each year . 

private homes , hotels , hospitals , police stations were eligible to participate and were in fact encouraged to take part every year . 

not one to be disheartened , honorary chairman of the buac , ma parthasarathy is determined to continue his movement for sustainable and environment-friendly urban development and plans to set up an ngo by october this year . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Chikka-Vidhana-Soudha-plan-deals-a-big-blow-to-heritage/articleshow/149050772.cms 

Curfew imposed on Vijapur town TNN | Sep 15 , 2001 , 11.46 PM IST ahmedabad / mehsana : curfew was imposed on vijapur town in mehsana district on saturday following clashes between members of two communities and incidents of arson . 

the police said three shops , a pipe factory and a tobacco godown were set afire by a rampaging mob at around 11.45 am . 

miscreants broke into the office of an advocate and took away some goods . 

the curfew was imposed around 12.30 pm . 

several persons have been taken into custody . 

the trouble was sparked off at vijapur , a town with 60,000 population , over by an incident of eve-teasing on friday . 

the boy and the girl belonged to different communities . 

town bjp chief raju sindhi , who intervened , was beaten up by some youths and had to be hospitalised . 

this enraged the bajrang dal which organised a ' bandh ' on saturday . 

a public meeting was addressed by several bjp and vhp leaders where provocative speeches were made , according to the police . 

three mahants also addressed the gathering . 

it was the crowd returning from the meeting which turned violent and indulged in acts of arson . 

home secretary s nityanandam said , " the situation did not warrant a curfew but we imposed it as a precautionary measure . " three srp companies have been rushed to the town and inspector general of police amitabh pathak is camping at vijapur . 

meanwhile , miscreants threw stones at a place of worship in tharad town in the sensitive border district of banaskantha on friday . 

police sources said it was the fall-out of an incident on wednesday when the eyes of an idol were found gouged . 

assuming that the act must have been committed by members of a particular community , the rival group on friday called for a bandh and took out a procession in the town . 

the mob reportedly threw stones at the shrine , sparking tension . 

the situation was under control on saturday and no further incidents were reported , said nityanandam . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Curfew-imposed-on-Vijapur-town/articleshow/1368519140.cms 

Job reservation : Varsity students protest TNN | Sep 24 , 2001 , 11.02 PM IST mysore : students of b.ed and b.p.ed courses attached to the mysore university on monday boycotted classes and staged a demonstration against the government not reserving 5 per cent jobs for university students in the forthcoming recruitment of teachers . 

the angry students marched from the mysore university campus to k.r. circle where they formed a human chain . 

they also burnt an effigy of karnataka primary and secondary education minister h . 

vishwanath . 

the students raised slogans against the minister saying he had betrayed the students by giving them a false promise on recruitment . 

later , the students submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Job-reservation-Varsity-students-protest/articleshow/1469369501.cms 

Doctors to stop OPD service TNN | Aug 5 , 2001 , 10.09 PM IST bangalore : the junior doctors strike entered the fourteenth day on sunday . 

the karnataka state junior doctors association has decided to intensify the strike by discontinuing with the parallel out patient department service provided by them in the respective medical colleges all over the state from monday . 

a relay hunger strike will begin from tuesday in victoria hospital premises if the demands are not met by then . 

the junior doctors of mysore city will take out a rally on tuesday against the pathetic response of the government towards their cause . 

a rasta roko will be held in bijapur on tuesday . 

student organisations like abvp , sufi , suci and aidso have also sympathised with the demands made by the junior doctors . 

they will join us in our struggle , the association said in a press note issued on sunday . 

withdrawal of opd by the striking doctors from monday will affect the work in vani vilas , bowring , k . 

c . 

general . 

kims , m . 

s . 

ramaiah and other major hospitals all over the state . 

it is learnt that the rajiv gandhi university of health sciences has called for an emergency syndicate meeting on monday to discuss the post-graduation examination pattern , a demand made by the junior doctors . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Doctors-to-stop-OPD-service/articleshow/7528682.cms 

Deadline set to fill up potholes in Belgaum TNN | Aug 14 , 2001 , 11.08 PM IST belgaum : belgaum divisional commissioner b.a. coutinho announced that potholes in all major areas of the city will be filled up before september 15 . 

he presided over a meeting which was held in response to the agitation launched by the nagarika hitarakshana vedike and other like-minded organisations on the eve of independence day in protest against the deteriorating state of the roads in the city . 

to ensure quality of the work , the participants at the meeting suggested that the officials should display a board on the newly laid roads mentioning the cost of construction , date of commencement of work , completion and the cost . 

belgaum city corporation commissioner p.a. meghannavar said the tenders had already been called for road construction and assured that the bad roads would be asphalted before the deadline . 

several office-bearers of different clubs and members of the nagarika hitarakshana vedike expressed unhappiness over the poor bus service in the city and said more buses should be introduced . 

reacting to this , coutinho directed divisional controller ramesh to introduce more buses , especially from the city to the suburbs . 

he also promised to improve bus service in the rural areas as new buses were likely to be introduced from august 15 . 

taking potshots at the officials for overlooking the quality of work done in the cases of sanitation , drainage in several areas which have been posing problems to the general public , the participants also urged the officials to do the needful in this regard . 

several officials , including belgaum urban development authority commissioner , g.a. adagatti , corporation engineers gokak and halagi , divisional controller in-charge , nwkrtc , ramesh , advocate , sachin bichu , prof . 

anand mense , sumant dhareshwar , sudhakar gurjar , pandurang usalkar , arun nazre , krishan chandliker , yashwant jagtap , rotary club of belgaum president kamlakar achrekar and bodhrao kulkarni were present on the occasion . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Deadline-set-to-fill-up-potholes-in-Belgaum/articleshow/1725122343.cms 

Appointments through forgery to be probed TNN | Aug 12 , 2001 , 11.00 PM IST sources said a deal was struck between the daily wage employees -- a.k. vamanamurthy , k . 

rajasaheb , mohammed ali and sharanappa -- and the arraigned officials in a bid to get their employment ratified . 

thanks to the forged go , four daily employees were absorbed in the department . 

a duplicate go was prepared to claim arrears and other benefits worth rs 5 lakh . 

smelling a rat , the then chief executive officer parshvanath jain ordered an inquiry into the episode . 

based on the inquiry report , the officials were placed under suspension . 

sources said two officials had been promoted and one of them had been transferred to tumkur . 

martyr cremated : the body of kumara swamy , the bsf jawan who was killed in the jammu and kashmir grenade attack in the early hours of saturday , was cremated with full state honours at haalasagara in kudligi taluk on sunday . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Appointments-through-forgery-to-be-probed/articleshow/753679059.cms 

Agents want cases withdrawn TNN | Oct 3 , 2001 , 02.08 AM IST mansa : while commission agents of budhlada grain market boycotted paddy procurement for the third day , on tuesday , in protest against the registration of a criminal case against commission agents of the town for an alleged murder attempt on another commission agent and ransacking of the civil hospital where the agent was admitted , on september 28 , a lot of resentment is prevailing among doctors of the civil hospital as the police has arrested none of the accused in the last four days . 

the doctors and paramedical staff in budhlada subdivision had observed a strike on september 29 against the behaviour of the commission agents , who had smashed furniture and other equipment in the hospital . 

they are angry that the police has released three of the arrested assailants under alleged political pressure . 

the trouble began when when a commission agent of budhlada and an inebriated khuswant singh had had a scuffle during an agents ' meeting . 

the police had brought him to the civil hospital for a medical test where the commission agents had gone on a rampage . 

the doctors alleged that the police was trying to hush up the incident by affecting a compromise between the parties as the commission agents were boycotting the purchase of paddy till the cases were withdrawn . 

the doctors demanded suitable action against the culprits . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Agents-want-cases-withdrawn/articleshow/493705100.cms 

Payment seats decision back to MSU syndicate for rethink TNN | Aug 7 , 2001 , 11.48 PM IST vadodara : ms university authorities on tuesday decided to reconsider the payment seats decision , following a heated debate on the subject at msu senate meeting . 

the meeting was adjourned for the day with several senate members vociferously demanding that the scheme be revoked , and an alternative source of funding for accommodating more students be found . 

accordingly , a special syndicate meeting has been called at 11 am on wednesday to discuss the payment seats issue and work out a solution . 

later , the senate meeting will be organised at 2 pm and a final solution to the scheme arrived at . 

leading the anti-payments scheme lobby during the tuesday 's senate meeting , narendra tiwari said the scheme was not fair on students as msu has an overall fund of rs 7.35 crore in various forms , such as the diamond and silver jubilee funds . 

he said the university has collected rs 50 lakh as development charge . " all these can be used to overcome the current problem and the entire batch of students who have applied should be accommodated , " he said . 

significantly several senate members who supported the payments scheme earlier were conspicuous by their absence in the meeting called on tuesday . 

those who were present felt that as the scheme seemed to have invited opposition from the public , a rethink should be considered . 

after the meeting was adjourned senate member cassim unia said , " though a rethink is necessary , some sort of payments scheme would be necessary . 

without money , the msu cannot impart quality education to the large number of students . 

we have to think of an alternative . 

one of these could be increasing the over all fee structure of the entire university , " he said . 

he said those who are opposing the payments scheme should give suggestions to resolve the matter . " the use of the golden jubilee and other funds for accommodating more students is not a practical solution , " he said . 

speaking during the meeting msu students ' union general secretary bharat dangar said the university authorities had given agitating students the short shrift . 

the students had maintained utmost calm and patience during the agitation . 

he said the authorities had initiated police action against them and treated them as criminals . " we did not in any way tarnish the image of the university . 

we merely expressed our opposition to the scheme and did not resort to any violence . 

but many of our students were mistreated by the police and there were more police in the campus than students during our agitation , " he said . 

meanwhile , members of the all india democratic student 's organisation and several other students organisations , including saket - the friends society , demonstrated outside the university office , requesting senate members to support their demand to scrap the payments scheme in the msu faculty of commerce . 

msu students ' union vice-president parth joshi said they were happy that the payments scheme issue had been referred back to the syndicate . " we appreciate the senate for backing us on this issue , " he said . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Payment-seats-decision-back-to-MSU-syndicate-for-rethink/articleshow/502367852.cms 

65 held , Peenya riot to be probed THE TIMES OF INDIA NEWS SERVICE | Jul 25 , 2001 , 11.31 PM IST bangalore : the karnataka government will order an inquiry to ascertain whether anti-social elements were involved in tuesday 's violence at the peenya industrial estate that left hundreds of people injured . 

making statements in both houses of the legislature on wednesday , home minister mallikarjun m . 

kharge said bangalore police commissioner t . 

madiyal had been asked to inquire and submit report to the government at the earliest . 

the decision comes in the wake of allegations by the opposition that anti-social elements were involved in the violence , as more than 80 per cent of the workers were women and that women would not resort to burning down vehicles . 

in the council , kharge said 65 people have been arrested and added that the police have been asked to study the antecedents of labour union leaders involved in tuesday 's violence . 

denying police intelligence failure , kharge said : ` ` it was a spontaneous agitation . 

hence , prior police bandobust was not made . 

but the police swung into action and there were adequate police on the spot . 

' ' defending police action , the minister said : ` ` the police exercised restraint as a large number of women were present . 

they persuaded the agitators not to resort to violence . 

but when the workers took law into their hands , the police had to control them . 

in the process , 25 -30 policemen were injured . 

' ' earlier in the day , the opposition rapped the government for inept handling of the situation and intelligence failure . 

kharge shot back : ` ` the same opposition members would have raised a hue and cry if the police resorted to firing . 

' ' labour minister a.m. hindasgeri said the provident fund commissioner denied any move to honour pf claims only after the employees turn 45 . ` ` i issued a press statement and spoke over doordarshan to scotch the rumour . 

' ' r . 

ashok ( bjp ) held the government responsible for the burning of vehicles and looting of small shops in and around peenya . 

he alleged that from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. , the police remained silent spectators . 

jd(u) floor leader p.g.r. sindhia blamed the government for the failure of its law and order machinery and wanted to know whether adequate steps had been taken to protect central government offices . 

he criticised the government for disallowing a delegation of protesters to meet the chief minister at vidhana soudha . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/65-held-Peenya-riot-to-be-probed/articleshow/642812827.cms 

Protest over shifting school to Badal 's in-laws ' village TNN | Aug 9 , 2001 , 10.34 PM IST bathinda : about a hundred persons from chak ram singh wala village of this district held a demonstration in front of the government school in the village , on monday , protesting the alleged political move to shift the location of the school . 

villagers , including women and children , sat on an indefinite dharna in front of the school after locking it , in protest against the move to shift the school to chak fateh singh wala village , the village of punjab chief minister parkash singh badal 's in-laws . 

they said the dharna would not be lifted till the government clarified its stand . 

villagers said that on may 5 some of them had met the chief minister when he was at his in-laws ' place , and had managed to persuade him to upgrade the village school . 

they alleged that in the guise of upgrading the school , some officials of the education department conspired to hand over the control of the school to the panchayat of chak fateh singh wala village . 

villagers said that a notification of the education department wrongly mentioned that the state government had decided to upgrade chak fateh singh wala high school to senior secondary level . 

they said there was no high school in chak fateh singh wala village , and the school mentioned was situated in chak ram singh wala village . 

though officials of the education department claimed that the change of name from chak ram singh to chak fateh singh was ` ` inadvertent ' ' and a ` ` clerical ' ' mistake , villagers alleged that it was part of their conspiracy to hand over the control of the school to the panchayat of chak fateh singh wala , thus serving their purpose of pleasing the chief minister 's in-laws . 

villagers said they were agitated when last week the education department transferred a teacher to the upgraded school named as government senior secondary school , chak fateh singh wala , instead of chak ram singh wala . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Protest-over-shifting-school-to-Badals-in-laws-village/articleshow/1785835521.cms 

Cong protests VMC 's inability to keep city clean A STAFF REPORTER | Jul 18 , 2001 , 02.15 AM IST vadodara : in a unique protest , congress corporators brought two piglets to the general meeting of the vadodara municipal corporation ( vmc ) here on tuesday evening to protest against the vmc 's " inability to keep the city clean . " they alleged that the vmc was solely responsible for the spread of diseases like cholera , gastroenteritis and jaundice in the city . 

congress corporators also disrupted a requisition meeting called to discuss the issue of spread of diseases . 

the requisition meeting was demanded by the congress and an ally of the bjp in the vmc , the samata party . 

there was lot of commotion in the khanderao market of the vmc when congressmen brought out two piglets from a bag . " this is a symbolic protest . 

the piglets symbolise the sorry state of affairs in the city and the utter failure of the vmc to keep the city clean , " says a congress corporator . 

in the sayaji sabhagruh , where the requisition meeting was being held , congress and bjp corporators had a heated exchange . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Cong-protests-VMCs-inability-to-keep-city-clean/articleshow/69550573.cms 

Banners sprout again TNN | Sep 7 , 2001 , 12.58 AM IST bangalore : despite bangalore development authority 's strict vigilance , the congress workers did paste posters all along the stretch of proposed hebbal flyover . 

bda officials said they had kept a watch on party workers till wednesday night . 

unrelenting as they were , the workers displayed banners up to the railway level crossing . 

the function venue was , however , not affected . 

a few ` ` dwarf ' ' cut-outs of chief minister s.m. krishna were displayed here and there . 

did the mehkri circle underpass inauguration fiasco dampen the spirits of congress workers ? 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Banners-sprout-again/articleshow/333299733.cms 

Raichur village observes bandh over hostel inmate 's death TNN | Sep 29 , 2001 , 10.31 PM IST raichur : the dalit sangharsh samiti ( dss ) observed a bandh in gabbur on friday as a token of protest against the alleged murder of a student of the sangamma kakargal hostel . 

all schools , colleges , hotels and business establishments remained closed on friday . 

more than 800 agitators participated in the protest and submitted a memorandum to the dc . 

they also wanted the culprits to be punished and the hostel warden and medical officer of phc of gabbur suspended . 

convicted for robbery : the additional jmfc iii divisional court here convicted rachanahalli , sharanappa and rangareddy of gadwal for committing theft . 

they were sentenced to six months in prison and were fined rs 1,000 . 

work on gugal barrage : works relating to the gugal barrage project proposed to be built across the krishna river near gugal in deodurga taluk of raichur district will begin in march , 2002 , said veerakumar patil , minister for energy here on friday at a press conference . 

he told reporters , a meeting relating to the project was held in bangalore on thursday . 

within two months , the tender notification for the project will be published . 

the soil testing report for construct pillars for the bridge may be received in december , added veerakumar patil . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Raichur-village-observes-bandh-over-hostel-inmates-death/articleshow/963522210.cms 

Gujarat Govt fears violence could spread TNN | Sep 1 , 2001 , 12.32 AM IST ahmedabad : there is something more sinister about the communal violence that the city has witnessed over the past week than what the bjp government is letting on as of now . 

but with two persons killed in police firing and the culmination of ganesh festivities scheduled on saturday , the administration is all geared up for an escalation and a possible spread of violence . 

` ` we are taking every precaution , not just in ahmedabad but also in vadodara and surat , ' ' additional chief secretary ( home ) v . 

v . 

r . 

subba rao said on thursday . 

he , however , said there was ` ` no visible pattern ' ' behind the communal trouble witnessed in ahmedabad so far and that the two flare-ups in dariapur last week and shahpur on wednesday night were ` ` not inter-connected ' ' . 

officials said security in ahmedabad and some other centres had been tightened and friday could be a crucial indicator of things to come in the next few weeks . 

the authorities at present seem rather confused about the motive behind the low-intensity violence that is taking place in ahmedabad and believe it has the potential to spread to other areas and even flare up . 

surat is considered particularly sensitive as eight persons were killed in police firing during idol immersion two years ago . 

a massive bandobast has , therefore , been made for the ganesh immersion there . 

while a delegation of muslims led by congressmen met minister of state for home haren pandya on thursday , protesting against lethal police firing during the clashes , the officials felt the leadership of the minority community was no longer in the hands of the main opposition party . ` ` this is a hypothesis which has been given to us by the intelligence agencies and we would like the government to interact with a wider representation of the community , ' ' subba rao said . 

the government is aware that new organisations like the students islamic movement of india ( simi ) , ahmedabad muslim youth association , lok jantantrik party , bahujan samaj party , samajwadi party and others are trying to make their presence felt in the politics of gujarat which has remained bi-polar so far . 

however , the government believes that the current spell of violence may not be related to the coming byelections to sabarkantha and sabarmati because there is not much of a muslim votebank in these two constituencies . 

the bjp government is , in fact , walking a thin line because even outfits like the bajrang dal and the vishwa hindu parishad are not happy with the police handling of the communal situation . 

president of vhp 's karnavati ( ahmedabad ) unit p.c. patel says : ` ` we will not tolerate any targeting of our cadres by the police under pressure from the minority community leaders . ' ' url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Gujarat-Govt-fears-violence-could-spread/articleshow/1616283730.cms 

Cong men attacked by TDP in Cuddapah TNN | Aug 21 , 2001 , 02.03 AM IST kurnool : at least 20 houses of congress activists have been attacked and ransacked by the ruling telugu desam party workers in dumpalagattu village of khazipet mandal in cuddapah district on monday . 

five persons were injured in the attack . 

the tdp activists hurled about 15 country-made bombs and pelted stones at the congress workers . 

in retaliation , the congress supporters also pelted stones . 

this is the second such incident in the village in the last three days . 

the problem rose in the village after a tdp supporter won the third ward of the village in the panchayat election held on august 14 . 

the supporters of the defeated candidate as a result injured three tdp activists on the same day . 

on saturday , the two groups had clashed and hurled bombs at each other . 

the latest attack went on for about four hours on monday morning . 

the congress supporters alleged that the tdp activists ' attack was preplanned . 

the police had arrested two leaders , t rosi reddy and r lakshmiprasanna reddy , on sunday . 

but , no arrests were made on monday as almost all the male members of the families left the village anticipating further attacks . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/Cong-men-attacked-by-TDP-in-Cuddapah/articleshow/844346651.cms 

Cong workers attack sarpanch TNN | Aug 18 , 2001 , 11.33 PM IST hyderabad : a bjp-supported sarpanch and his supporters were beaten up , reportedly by a mob of 60 congress workers in kacharaveedu gram panchayat in nandri mandal of chittoor district on saturday evening . 

state bjp spokesman p prabhakar said the sarpanch , s srinivasulu , who was elected on friday , faced the wrath of congress workers who ransacked his house and those of his supporters . 

srinivasulu , bjp state executive member narayanaswamy naidu and 14 others were injured in the attack . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/Cong-workers-attack-sarpanch/articleshow/573694688.cms 

Priests among 7 shot dead in Kashmir JAMMU : In a major strike , the militants beheaded two Hindu priests after kidnapping them from a temple and shot dead five members of a Muslim trader ’ s family Tuesday morning in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir , official sources said here . 

TNN | Aug 29 , 2001 , 03.39 AM IST jammu : in a major strike , the militants beheaded two hindu priests after kidnapping them from a temple and shot dead five members of a muslim trader 's family tuesday morning in poonch district of jammu and kashmir , official sources said here . 

as tension gripped the area , the authorities imposed an indefinite curfew on poonch and surankot to guard against possible outbreak of communal violence . 

a group of unidentified militants abducted priests narotam dass and baba devi dass from kali mata temple near dhundhak bridge on surankot-poonch road monday night and beheaded them . 

the bodies of the priests were recovered by the police near the temple.at the same spot where the priests were slain , the security forces found a fruit box , which contained an improvised explosive device ( ied ) with a 10 kg rdx charge . 

army vehicles frequently move along the road and the ied might have caused serious damage if remotely exploded , timing it for a passing convoy . 

in a separate attack , the militants stormed the house of basharat shah , a shopkeeper , in surankot area and shot dead his father , mother , wife and two children in the age-group of one and three years , the sources said . 

shah was not present in the house at the time of the attack . 

in another strike in surankot tehsil on monday night , the militants killed the numbardar and another person in parmot village . 

both were muslims and said to have been slain on the suspicion of being informers of the security forces . 

priest narotam dass , well-versed in palmistry and astrology , had a large following in the area as people of both the communities used to visit him and seek his blessings . 

baba devi dass , priest of lakshami narayan temple in sunderbani area of rajouri district , had halted in the temple for the night on his way to budha amarnath temple in mandi area of poonch district . 

in a concerted move to build up tension along the borders , regular pakistani soldiers attempted to capture a forward indian post in the gambhir sector of rajouri district . 

the pakistanis also resorted to heavy firing and shelling in the nowshera sector of rajouri and the digwar sector of poonch . 

in the gambhir commando attack by the pakistani soldiers , which was repulsed , three pakistani soldiers were killed and two injured . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Priests-among-7-shot-dead-in-Kashmir/articleshow/1901234324.cms 

Vital installations put under security cover Aug 12 , 2001 , 10.30 PM IST new delhi : vital installations here were put under security cover and vehicles were being searched at random ahead of the independence day amid apprehensions of more militant strikes , hightened by a bomb blast in the posh south delhi market area late on saturday night . 

the bomb blast on the ring road in posh south extension-ii despite high alert sounded in the capital and border districts of uttar pradesh and haryana forced the delhi police to intensify searches of vehicles throughout the capital and virtually lay siege of vital installations . 

intelligence reports have warned of strikes , including suicide attacks by militants outfits , hizbul mujahideen , lashker-e-taiba , al - badr , hizb-ul-jehad-e-islami and muslim fundamentalist groups owing allegiance to international terrorist mastermind osama bin laden . 

according to these reports , prime minister atal bihari vajpayee , union home minister l.k. advani and ' another ' cabinet colleague are the potential targets of these militant outfits , who have also prepared women 's suicide squad . 

one intelligence input has even indicated involvement of women terrorists in suicide squads that may strike around the independence day being conducted in a " high threat security scenario " , special commissioner of police ( security ) r.s. gupta said . " intelligence reports have indicated that after the agra summit , renewed directions have been given to pakistan-sponsored terrorists to indulge in acts of violence in india , particularly close to the independence day , " gupta said , adding " one of the focussed targets " of terrorists is delhi . 

the historic red fort , where the prime minister will unfurl the national flag and address the nation , has been sealed more than a week ahead of the independence day and its vicinity placed under watch and control for a few weeks . 

gupta said that the alert , sounded three days back , would continue even beyond independence day . 

security and vigil have particularly been stepped up at railway stations , bus terminals , and other crowded places besides vital installations . 

nsg commandos have been positioned at strategic points at the airport . 

he said that considering the threat perception this time , about 7,000 personnel from central paramilitary forces had been drawn in addition to the requirement for such events . 

these will supplement the delhi police strength of about 55,000 personnel . " strong air defence measures have been initiated with the help of defence authorities , including restrictions on flights in the neighbourhood of delhi and positioning of air defence guns at appropriate places to prevent entry of any unauthorised flying objects , including micro-light aircraft and gliders , " gupta said . 

he further said that movement of trains would also be restricted . 

an exercise to check new tenants and owners of flats or buildings in the vicinity of the function had been going on for quite some time now , he said . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Vital-installations-put-under-security-cover/articleshow/1312659211.cms 

BUTA announces strike on July 25 A STAFF REPORTER | Jul 24 , 2001 , 12.00 AM IST vadodara : baroda university teachers association ( buta ) has announced a strike on july 25 to express their solidarity with the other striking employees protesting against government polices of privatisation and self-finance colleges . 

association general secretary said all members of buta have been asked to proceed on a one day leave on wednesday as per the all-india federation of university and college teachers ' organisation ( aifucto ) decision . 

he said buta also disapproved the appointment of a non-teaching member as the joint convenor of the m s university annual report committee . 

he said buta had reservations about a non-teaching members being part of the annual committee report as a large part of the report contained academic achievements of the teachers . 

he added that all buta members had been asked not to provide details of their academic achievements to the annual report committee , and in cases where they already had they were asked to withdraw the same . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/BUTA-announces-strike-on-July-25/articleshow/1670548881.cms 

SSLC student 's body found buried TNN | Aug 21 , 2001 , 12.10 AM IST haveri : the body of an sslc student , pavitra ( 17 ) from bidarahalli village in honnali taluk of davanagere district was found buried in a plantation area near his village on sunday , a release from the sp 's office here said . 

the release added , the boy was missing since august 6 as per a complaint lodged by his parents . 

a special squad has been formed to nab the culprits . 

sp narayana r . 

nadamani along with other police officers visited the spot . 

suspended : the haveri superintendent of police ( sp ) puneet arora has suspended the hanagal cpi p.h. bheemakkanavar based on the report submitted by shiggaon dy sp chandrakant . 

last week , family members of the police staff residing in the quarters staged a protest alleging the cpi disturbed residents at night . 

the women demanded the suspension of cpi or transfer of their husbands . 

they said it had become difficult for them to live in the quarters . 

sp puneet arora rushed to the spot and asked dysp chandrakant to conduct a preliminary inquiry and submit the report within three days . 

rs 46,000 stolen : around rs 46,000 was robbed from the bag of shivappa badiger at the bus stand in gadag recently . 

badiger had come gadag to pay an advance of rs 60,000 for a second hand tempo traveller along with his friend sharanappa . 

the robbers stole rs 46,000 ( out of rs 60,000 ) by cutting the bag while the victim was boarding the bus to laxmeshwar , the police said . 

arrested : the police recently arrested the third accused involved in the fake note scandal . 

he has been identified as hussainbasha . 

a search for for another person involved is on , the police added . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/SSLC-students-body-found-buried/articleshow/1826239977.cms 

Six-year-old girl raped , murdered TNN | Aug 24 , 2001 , 12.11 AM IST surat : a six-year-old girl was raped and murdered by an unidentified person near sachin on wednesday . 

the girl had been missing since tuesday evening ; she was found dead in an isolated area near sachin gidc . 

police said the girl lived with her widowed mother , and had gone out to play on tuesday evening . 

she had been missing since then . 

a case has been registered and investigations are on , police said . 

sonia to address farmers ' rally on sept 1 surat : all india congress committee president sonia gandhi will address the annual ' khedut stayagrah ' rally at dharampur , about 100 km from surat , on september 1 . 

according to veteran freedom fighter hakumat desai , who will preside over the meeting , the rally gains significance in view of the pardi annakhed satyagrah 's significant role in the freedom struggle , which was on par with the bardoli satyagrah . 

he said very few people , today , were aware of the movement 's contribution to the freedom struggle . 

gujarat pradesh committee president amarsinh chaudhary , too , confirmed sonia gandhi 's visit to dharampur . 

this will be sonia 's third visit to the region , the last being in january 1999 following the communal upheaval in the dangs . 

c-dot exchange was commissioned at bajipura surat : a 512 - line c-dot exchange has been commissioned at bajipura . 

according to a press note , the exchange , which is connected to the network of the telecom , will provide detailed billing to customers . 

those who are keen to have a second telephone connection can have the same against a token amount of re 1 . 

smc fines residents for littering surat : surat municipal corporation ( smc ) officials imposed fines amounting to rs 4,850 on more than 60 people in varchha zone for dumping in the area . 

under the cleanliness drive , the corporation has penalised hundreds of offenders , smc sources said . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Six-year-old-girl-raped-murdered/articleshow/1955004991.cms 

Strike was broken through reason , threats Shubhajit Roy NEW DELHI : Tuesday ’ s strike was in sharp contrast to earlier ones on the conversion issue . 

Declared a partial success — transport minister Parvez Hashmi insisted that conditions were near normal — the division in the ranks of transport unions ensured that commuters were not harassed . 

| TIMES INTERNET NETWORK | Aug 29 , 2001 , 01.04 AM IST new delhi : tuesday 's strike was in sharp contrast to earlier ones on the conversion issue . 

declared a partial success — transport minister parvez hashmi insisted that conditions were near normal — the division in the ranks of transport unions ensured that commuters were not harassed . 

so how exactly was the strike broken ? 

jaswant singh arora , chief of federation of transport union congress , which had opposed the strike , told the times of india : ' ' it was a well-planned move , executed with picture-perfect precision . 

' ' he admitted , however , that owners of contract buses , autorickshaws and taxis stayed off the roads as they were afraid of being attacked . 

sources said efforts to derail tuesday 's stir started just 48 hours before the strike . 

divided into small groups , the non-striking transporters went around the city to convince others about the futility of the stir . 

said arora , ' ' the strike was a political move by the bjp . 

we had to try really hard to convince the operators that the concept of ordinance was a complete hoax . 

' ' ' ' as long as parliament is in session , the issue of an ordinance is out of the question . 

the president can issue an ordinance only after august 30 , ' ' said jatinder mudgil , president of the all-india cng bus operators association . 

' ' we also had to explain to the transporters that the decision to issue an ordinance allowing low sulphur diesel has to be taken by the union cabinet . 

and the centre will not issue an ordinance when the matter is sub judice . 

the union government would never fall in direct confrontation with the apex court , ' ' arora said . 

the most vital move by the strike - breakers was to ask the operators to join madan lal khurana and sahib singh at their meetings on monday . 

and to give the final push , the transport minister , assisted by the dtc chairman , warned of termination of permits of those vehicles which would not ply . 

consequently , the buses which plied under dtc 's kilometre scheme came out onto the roads . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Strike-was-broken-through-reason-threats/articleshow/1397551946.cms 

Cable TV stalemate continues TNN | Sep 20 , 2001 , 11.26 PM IST bangalore : for viewers caught in the on-going war between star and cable tv operators , it seems like a long wait before they can begin viewing their favourite programmes , for neither the cable operators nor star is willing to relent to the pressure by the viewers . 

at a meeting convened on thursday by the protesting karnataka state cable tv operators ' association and the msos ( except hathway ) , it was reiterated that star transmission was indefinitely switched off . ` ` we have very reasonable demands , and we expect star to concede , ' ' a spokesperson of the association said . 

meanwhile some operators linked to hathway led by suresh kumar , dgm of hathway , on wednesday met joint commissioner ( traffic ) ajai kumar singh to seek protection from the agitators who ` ` force us to switch off star channels and create a nuisance in front of hathway office . ' ' url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Cable-TV-stalemate-continues/articleshow/174102039.cms 

UT staff demands bonus TNN | Sep 21 , 2001 , 01.41 AM IST chandigarh : hundreds of employees of the chandigarh administration and municipal corporation held a dharna and demonstration at the museum chowk on the jan marg , on wednesday . 

the demonstration was held on the call of the federation of ut employees and workers , chandigarh , in support of long-pending demands of the employees . 

these demands include release of bonus of four years from 1997 to 2001 , treating transferred employees of the administration as on deputation to the municipal corporation , stopping privatisation / corporatisation of government and semigovernment departments , revival of super bazar , filling up of vacant posts and creation of new posts plus appointment of next of kin of deceased employees . 

the gathering was addressed by various trade union leaders , including bhag mal rana ( general secretary ) and sat pal sharma ( president ) of the federation of ut employees and workers , piara singh kang , manmohan singh and daljit singh of municipal corporation , zile singh , gopal dutt joshi and many other leaders of sister organisations . 

councillor ranjana shahi also spoke on the occasion and expressed solidarity and support with the demands of the workers . 

the demonstrators resolved to intensify their agitation , including resorting to direct action in case their demands were not met immediately . 

in another demonstration , hundreds of employees of the directorate of panchayat , labour and irrigation department , punjab , assembled in front of the office of labour department to press for their demands . 

the joint action committee held a meeting in the rose garden to chalk out the course of future agitation against the punjab government and chandigarh administration . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/UT-staff-demands-bonus/articleshow/382462886.cms 

WHAT AILS OUR MEDICAL EDUCATION ? 

By Panchalee Thakur | TNN | Aug 27 , 2001 , 10.19 PM IST the recent strike by junior doctors symbolises the diseases that affect medical education in this country today . 

though karnataka is a hot destination for students around the country who want to join the medical profession , the mushrooming of medical institutes in the state , some of which do not have the necessary infrastructure for imparting standardised education , coupled with ill-equipped hospitals have given a bad name to medical education in the state . 

every year some 2,600 students graduate with an mbbs degree in karnataka . 

many of these students pass out of privately-run institutes . 

though a number of these colleges have earned a good name , some of them do not have hospitals attached to them . 

medical students of smaller private institutes also complain that they do not get enough practical training , as they do not get sufficient number of cases to work on . 

whether it 's patients or cadavers , they feel they are not trained enough to prepare themselves for the profession . 

but one of the biggest complaints of students across all colleges and institutes is that the number of years of hard work they put in is not compensated adequately when they finish college . 

for an mbbs degree , students have to study for four and half years and then do internship for a year . 

for pg , they have to put in another two years of study . 

unlike residents in other parts of the country , there is no residency scheme in karnataka . 

the recent strike put primary focus on this . 

said a student leader , who did not want to be named , " a government had long back expressed its willingness to implement a residency scheme . 

the rajiv gandhi university ( under which most medical colleges come ) and the medical council of india ( mci ) have also strongly recommended such a scheme . 

but the government feels it 's going to put an extra burden on them . " the state government has henceforth set up a committee to look into this demand . 

senior professor b sadashivamurthy , bangalore medical college , who has been made the rajiv gandhi university convenor of the committee , said , " we conducted a workshop recently in which the health secretary , director of medical education , college principals , professors and junior doctors participated . 

the rajiv gandhi university will soon send its set of recommendations to the state government on ways to implement the residency scheme . " he said the committee will also take care to suggest measures which will put the least possible burden on the government . " a residency scheme will bring in uniformity in the training for junior doctors with the rest of the country . 

it will give them a sense of responsibility and will ensure that the selection process for pg courses is more transparent , " he added . 

but the committee has still not decided how much stipend residents will be entitled to . 

dr sadashivamurthy said it would be much less than what residents in central government hospitals get . 

once the residency scheme is put in place junior doctors will be able handle cases on their own and will be made responsible that those cases . 

but the state of affairs among private junior doctors is not likely to change . 

said a junior doctor in a private hospital , " government hospital junior doctors have a voice , we do n't . 

our biggest problem is stipend . 

it 's a pittance after all the years that we have put in for studies . 

but we have no way to vent our grievances . " she said the problem is not so acute in big private hospitals because at least they get enough work . 

but in smaller hospitals junior doctors do not get paid , they have to sign bonds for continued service and do not even get much work . 

junior doctors have also been protesting against rural service but the government feels they must be prepared for just a couple of years ' service . " the government has made their education highly subsidised and the least they can do is put in two years of rural service before they their post graduation . 

those who do this service get preference for pg selection . 

often they say they 'll do it after pg and then they are either off to the us or say they are too highly qualified for rural service , " said dr sadashivamurthy . 

a student in a private college complained that some smaller institutes actually hire faculty from andhra pradesh for a day or hire patients for a couple of nights to show that they have a good strength . 

the mci has formulated guidelines for the student-teacher ratio and the patient intake-student ration in a teaching hospital . 

it has also put a ceiling of 150 students a year for medical colleges in the country . " to hoodwink the authorities , smaller private institutes resort to these unscrupulous methods so that they can increase their student intake , " he said . 

the only way to stop such practices is by the authorities to make their inspections " real surprise visits " and not they are conducted now and also take stern , exemplary action against erring institutes . 

a big problem for medical students in the country today is to get into a post graduate course . " in certain streams like surgery and cardiology , the demand is even greater than other streams like gynaecology or anaesthetics . 

even if you have done exceptionally well , there is no guarantee that you will get into the course you want . 

moreover , pg is very expensive . 

but if you do n't specialise , there is no place for you today , " a student complained . 

senior doctors sympathise with student doctors . 

they say unless facilities for students and junior doctors are improved in the country , the brain drain to the west will continue unabated . 

they say providing these facilities to student doctors may mean extra burden on the government but it will only go to help the country in the long run . 

a better-trained , satisfied student means a better doctor for the coming generation . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/WHAT-AILS-OUR-MEDICAL-EDUCATION/articleshow/397401318.cms 

Govt asked to resolve AIIMS crisis within 36 hrs Aug 27 , 2001 , 01.42 AM IST new delhi : the delhi high court , taking suo motu notice of the strike by resident doctors of all india institute of medical sciences ( aiims ) and its employees , on monday directed the centre and the institute to resolve the issue within 36 hours . 

giving a green signal to authorities to invoke the essential services maintenance act , a division bench comprising chief justice arijit passayat and justice d k jain directed health secretary , director general health services and aiims director to ensure the strike comes to an end within the next 36 hours . 

while the doctors had gone on strike on aug 22 following alleged manhandling of one of their colleagues by some employees , the workers resorted to similar action from monday . 

the court issued notices to the health minister , in the capacity of president of aiims , its director , health ministry and the institute 's karamchari union asking them to file a status report by aug 29 . 

the authorities are free to invoke esma to resolve the strike , the court said . 

earlier , a bench headed by justice devinder gupta had taken suo motu notice of the strike by doctors and class three and four employees and referred the matter to the chief justice 's bench for further action . 

taking serious view of the strike , the bench said , " doctors cannot refuse to treat patients and if anybody prevents them from doing their duty it will amount to violation of article 21 of the constitution , " the resident doctors of the premier institute had gone on strike after some employees allegedly had manhandled one of their colleague overs a dispute arising out of treatment of a security guard . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Govt-asked-to-resolve-AIIMS-crisis-within-36-hrs/articleshow/1033994487.cms 

CITU plans strike against NDA policies TNN | Aug 27 , 2001 , 12.08 AM IST bangalore : the centre of indian trade unions ( citu ) has announced its plan to go on a nationwide strike against the nda government 's policies and to force a change in them , ` ` which have brought all-round disaster to the country . ' ' the three-day meeting of citu 's working committee in bangalore ended on sunday with a massive rally at malleswaram grounds . 

members unanimously adopted resolutions which called to defeat the centre 's ` retrograde ' policies : the move to repeal the sick industrial companies act ( sica ) and abolition of bifr ; against the labour law reforms ; amendments to the payment of bonus act . 

the meeting was addressed , among others , by citu president e . 

balanandan and general secretary m.k. pandhe read out a report on the situation . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/CITU-plans-strike-against-NDA-policies/articleshow/1770840852.cms 

Gujarat teachers ' strike continues Sep 9 , 2001 , 01.04 PM IST ahmedabad : agitation by over 50,000 secondary and higher secondary school teachers in gujarat entered 13th day on sunday , even as state government officials claimed that about 2,000 schools have reopened and more were expected to open on monday . 

employees , including teachers of 5,500 government-aided secondary and senior secondary schools are on strike to demand vehicle allowance from april 1998 and pay at par with central government employees among other things and have completely paralysed the education system in the state . 

the government had invoked the essential services maintenance act ( esma ) on september 7 to end the strike and bring back normalcy . 

situation in bapunagar , where about 60 teachers who were agitating were detained for violation of prohibitory orders on saturday , is normal , the police said . 

some of the teachers had received injuries in the scuffle with the police . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Gujarat-teachers-strike-continues/articleshow/752718987.cms 

Schools strike a success in Surat even after ESMA TNN | Sep 8 , 2001 , 11.34 PM IST surat : teachers in over 230 schools , out of 262 grant-in-aid schools in the district , remained away from their respective schools on saturday , despite the government invoking the essential services maintenance act against striking teachers . 

though parents and students have been asking the several school authorities for holding classes , the school management have been telling them that they would not be able to do much in this regard . 

it is a tussle between the government and the teachers , and the school management stand nowhere in this matter , according to ramesh oza , the secretary of sarvajnik education society , which runs several schools in the city . 

oza added none of the parents have approached the society with any representations , although they have been expressing their concern about the state of affairs . 

he further said that certain remarks made against the school managements in general were not in good taste . 

however , he refused to elaborate further . 

most of the schools here on saturday wore a deserted look . 

no teachers or other non-teaching staff were found in the experimental school near parle point . 

when inquired from the locals there , it was learnt that no teachers of secondary classes had reported for duty on saturday . 

however , this could not be confirmed . 

even the premier st xavier 's school at ghod dod road did not have any teaching activities on saturday . 

the school officials , however , could not be contacted despite several attempts . 

but , a lady teacher at lourdes convent school near indoor stadium , on condition of anonymity , said that there was growing frustration among the students and no effort was made by the school management to resume teaching in the school . 

several other schools at athwalines , piplod , adjan and randert in the city , which this correspondent visited , also wore a deserted look , and on inquiry it was found that most of them were closed as saturday being a holiday . 

the district education officer , p n dave , told tnn that several schools ' management have informed that they would resume teaching from monday onwards . 

on saturday , 24 out of the 254 schools on strike were reported to be open , dave informed . 

things would be more clear in a couple of days and certainly , many schools will be open by monday , dave added . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Schools-strike-a-success-in-Surat-even-after-ESMA/articleshow/1518048585.cms 

DU students union seeks poll deferment due to strike TNN | Aug 23 , 2001 , 01.59 AM IST new delhi : results , marksheets , identity cards , submission of admission fees , issuance of bus passes . 

all these activities have ground to a halt at the delhi university to a halt due to the on-going strike of its non-teaching staff . 

even library access in many colleges has been affected . 

add to it the paralysing effect on mess facilities in hostels and the deserted science laboratories , and the troubles of students make a long list . 

the staff are on strike till friday after which they will review their decision , du karamchari union members said . ` ` we may also sit on a fast unto death next week if the issue remains unresolved , ' ' ducku president suresh yadav said . 

the strike entered its 15th day on wednesday . 

ducku is demanding implementation of a promotional scheme among other things . 

interestingly , the du students union has written a letter to the vice-chancellor requesting him to defer the student polls . ` ` i-cards have not been issued to a majority of the students . 

this will affect the electoral process , ' ' national students union of india spokesperson rishabh jha said . 

the du students union is supporting the non-teaching staff in their agitation . 

some colleges are managing the bare minimum functions with daily wagers . 

the staff union held talks with the university authorities last friday but no conclusive result seems to have emerged from it . 

the authorities are said to have assured the karamcharis that they are making efforts to resolve the issue with the union hrd ministry . 

` ` our result was declared early in august but till now we have not been able to get our marksheets , ' ' said shipra yadav , a third-year journalism student of kalindi college . 

worst affected are the students who want to take admission in ma programmes . ` ` our admission has been stalled because we have not been able to get the marksheet , ' ' a student of the same college , who has applied for ma political science , said . 

many students have not been able to renew their bus passes . ` ` we are spending much more on commuting , ' ' a gargi college student complained . 

science students have also not been able to attend practical classes for the past two weeks due to absence of laboratory attendants . 

the science faculty had also issued an appeal to the staff to return to work . 

issue raised in lok sabha the issue of frequent strikes affecting educational activities in delhi and other central universities was recently raised in the lok sabha . 

union hrd minister murli manohar joshi said university employees generally go on strike in the beginning of the academic session , particularly at the time of admissions , and before the commencement of examinations . 

the duration of such strikes can vary from one to two weeks and in extreme cases upto three weeks , the minister said . 

the demands range from filling up of vacant posts , compassionate appointments over and above the prescribed quota , regularisation of daily wage staff and upward revision of pay-scales among other things . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/DU-students-union-seeks-poll-deferment-due-to-strike/articleshow/1820049741.cms 

BC hostelites demand better food TNN | Aug 31 , 2001 , 11.49 PM IST chitradurga : tired of eating meals made of low-quality rice , nearly 100 students , all inmates of backward students hostel of hosadurga , held a demonstration by displaying the cooked rice served to them by the hostel authorities at hosadurga on friday . 

they later staged a dharna for more than an hour in front of the taluk panchayat office demanding removal of the hostel warden . 

for quite some time , nobody turned up to listen to their woes . 

some officials did intervene , when the students were about to go back , and promised them that they would bring it to the notice of the mla and other authorities concerned . 

the students from some hostels in chitradurga have also complained of such treatment and said nobody ever bothered to hear them out . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/BC-hostelites-demand-better-food/articleshow/2052095661.cms 

PAUTA writ admitted TNN | Aug 29 , 2001 , 03.30 AM IST chandigarh : the writ petition filed by punjab agricultural university teachers association ( pauta ) , ludhiana , seeking encashment of 300 days earned leave at the time of retirement , was on tuesday admitted after preliminary arguments put forward in this regard by the counsel for the petitioners . 

the division bench comprising justices k s kumaran and j s khehar , while admitting the writ also fixed january 23 as the date for the final decision on it . 

the vice chancellor and the registrar of pau along with the punjab agriculture secretary have been asked to file their replies in the meantime . 

annexing a judgment delivered by justice mehtab singh gill of the high court on august 1 , 2001 in the case charan singh lamba versus state of punjab , the pauta petition pointed out that the judge has already allowed leave encashment up to 300 days instead of 180 days as earlier provided for. pauta has sought intervention of the court in view of the vc 's decision of june 25 , 2001 , rejecting the employees ' request to have a fresh option in the matter . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/PAUTA-writ-admitted/articleshow/1337709545.cms 

He dares to bare , all for justice TNN | Aug 14 , 2001 , 11.07 PM IST hubli : a ` sacked ' ksrtc employees sat in protest in a ` semi-nude ' state in hubli on tuesday . 

the protestor r.m. chalawadi who was working as a conductor in the halyal section of sirsi ksrtc division launched a satyagraha keeping a portrait of babasaheb ambedkar in front of the nwkrtc managing director 's office on gokul road . 

threatening that he would not withdraw his indefinite strike , chalawadi alleged that he was ` unjustly ' removed from service without proper enquiry being conducted . 

he demanded the authorities to withdraw his dismissal order immediately and charged that the decision to dismiss him was an example of casteist discrimination . 

chalawadi reasoned that his removal from job was unfair as , he was not provided a chance to fight back . 

he said that a case in this regard was being heard at chikkodi jmfc court and added that he would obey the court verdict if he was found guilty . 

he pointed out that many of the employees who were trapped by the lokayukta were taken back to work even without enquiry . 

he also said that he had petitioned karnataka governor and other senior officials of the ksrtc . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/He-dares-to-bare-all-for-justice/articleshow/582054535.cms 

DMK stage walkout in TN Assembly Sep 12 , 2001 , 01.48 AM IST chennai : dmk mlas walked out of the tamil nadu assembly on tuesday when the commercial taxes minister , c v shanmugham , made a series of corruption charges against the previous dmk regime . 

the treasury benches including some ministers heckled and jeered as the dmk men , led by former public works minister , durai murugan , trooped out of the house . 

in the din that followed , dmk men made some remarks , which could not be heard , but the speaker , k kalimuthu , ordered their expunction , on the request of the leader of the house and finance minister , c ponnaiyan . 

the furore started when shanmugham said the previous dmk regime had imposed ' uniform tax ' on 40 commodities , succumbing to the pressures of the central government . 

at this stage , durai murugan , sought the permission of the chair to make a clarification , but kalimuthu said he would get an opportunity after the minister finished his reply . 

as durai murugan was insisting on having his say , he was supported by his party colleagues , but the ruling party members booed and jeered the dmk men . 

durai murugan then led his partymen out . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/DMK-stage-walkout-in-TN-Assembly/articleshow/401625889.cms 

HDMC reverses order , directs vacant land be made a park TNN | Aug 30 , 2001 , 10.57 PM IST hubli : the residents of mahaveer nagar succeeded in getting the hubli dharwad municipal corporation ( hdmc ) reverse their earlier decision of handing over the 22 guntas of open space in the locality to kutchi dasha oswal jain mahajan , which wanted to construct a community hall on the land . 

following a protest demonstration by the residents against the proposed move , hdmc mayor firdous konnur on thursday gave a direction to develop the land into a park ` as desired by the residents ' . 

when the protesters led by senior youth congress leader ish kohli , held a demonstration just before the beginning of the council meeting , firdous came down and received a memorandum demanding not to handover the property to the private organisation . 

the issue came up for discussion in the council meeting , though some of the corporators were against discussing the issue before taking up the subjects in accordance to the agenda . 

there was a majority opinion to develop the site into a park . 

it may be recalled here that the times of india had carried a report on the proposed move of the hdmc to lease out the site to build the community hall , much against the wish of the local residents . 

the first move against the wishes of the residents was made when sarala bhandge was the mayor . 

it was then that a resolution was hurriedly passed to build the community hall . 

this came in for sharp criticism by the residents of mahaveer colony and a number of representations were given to the hdmc against the move . 

infact , the said site was kept as a lung space when the mahaveer colony was formed in 1978 . 

what had come as surprise for the residents was the relevant documents supporting the claims of the residents that the area was allotted as lung space went missing . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/HDMC-reverses-order-directs-vacant-land-be-made-a-park/articleshow/1194423033.cms 

Stock brokers embark on nationwide strike Jul 23 , 2001 , 02.17 PM IST new delhi : stock exchanges across the country saw little activity in early trading on monday on account of a nation-wide strike by brokers in protest against market regulator sebi 's ban on carry-forward trading . 

activity was hit at the bombay stock exchange ( bse ) after a section of the brokers boycotted trade to highlight the issue of dropping volumes following a ban on carry-forward since july 2 . 

less than 40,000 shares were trade in the first 20 minutes . 

however , institutional brokerages were trading . 

the one-day token strike by brokers is to oppose the securities and exchange board of india 's ( sebi ) move to ban deferral products , while forcing new trading products and introducing rolling system . 

carry-forward refers to a facility , which enabled investors to take on bigger positions than they could otherwise afford by buying stocks on credit , and postponing payment . 

this practice , which accounted for about 90 per cent of the volume , was blamed for a payment crisis in march . 

there was no transaction on the delhi stock exchange while brokers in jaipur stock exchange abstained from trading . 

brokers from all over the country had formed an all-india broker 's forum , securities industry association of india , last tuesday to protect and promote the intrests of its members . 

a statement by jaipur stock exchange brokers said that while sebi had discontinued all carry-forward systems , including the 135 - year old badla , automated borrowing and lending mechanism ( albm ) , borrowing and lending of security systems ( bless ) and modified carry forward system ( mcfs ) , no substitute has been provided . 

derivatives , it said was no substitute for deferral products . 

over 500 brokers of the calcutta stock exchange downed their shutters to protest the ban on carry forward system . " we have lost the only way of procuring finance following the ban and the cse brokers are the worst sufferers . 

procurement of finance should be allowed to everybody , " cse brokers association member s.k. kaushik said , adding the strike was total . " sebi should re-introduce badla , may be with little more risk management as the ban was imposed on grounds that there was no proper risk management , " he said , demanding introduction of an alternative to badla . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/Stock-brokers-embark-on-nationwide-strike/articleshow/1672071826.cms 

SWC management , employees in another stand-off Oct 3 , 2001 , 09.14 PM IST kolkata : the shaw wallace management on wednesday asserted that it had no intention of folding up operations in kolkata , even as employees alleged that they were disallowed entry into the company 's head office here without prior intimation in an attempt to force them to resign . " kolkata is an important centre for us and we do n't want to run away from the city , " a spokesman for the shaw wallace said when asked to comment on the allegations of employees . 

however , a spokesman for the shaw wallace employees ' union said a large number of employees at the head office was denied entry to the office this morning , alleging that " it was another attempt to force the employees to resign " . 

he termed the move as " totally illegal " as there was no prior notice to the employees . 

he alleged that the management wanted to close down office in kolkata because of the resolution taken at the annual general meeting to shift the head office to mumbai . 

the police had to be called in to pacify both sides after a section of employees was not allowed to enter allegedly for being late and the situation showed signs of going out of control . 

the stand-off came barely a few days after the m r chabria-led management passed a resolution at the company 's annual general meeting here on september 28 to shift the registered office . " a large number of employees found the main gate of the head office closed this morning while a section of employees was already inside and was not allowed to come out even for food , " the union spokesman alleged . 

the management , however , rejected the allegation and said it was only a step to enforce discipline at the head office and only latecomers were refused permission to enter . 

the company spokesman said kolkata contributed significantly to the business of the company and " we cannot simply run out of here " . 

the union , in turn , alleged that these measures were adopted only to force the 195 - odd employees at the head office to resign as they had not been paid salaries for a year . 

the company maintained that staffers were not accepting salaries as they were not willing to concede to the transfer of 20 employees to a unit in chennai . 

the union countered that it was ready to discuss a voluntary retirement scheme for employees here . 

its spokesman said : " if you want to get rid of employees , give us a proposal which we will consider . " https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/SWC-management-employees-in-another-stand-off/articleshow/2120411005.cms 

Teachers blink first , call off strike TNN | Sep 13 , 2001 , 12.53 AM IST ahmedabad : looming police arrest under esma and crumbling support in wake of the strict disciplinary measures unleashed by the government , saw the teachers turn tail and announce to unconditionally withdraw the 15 - day-old strike on wednesday . 

the teachers will return to the classrooms on thursday . " we unconditionally withdraw the strike in the interest of our students at large . 

all teachers will resume their duties from thursday onwards " , announced president of the gujarat rajya shaikhanik sankalan samiti keshubhai patel amidst heavy criticism from the teachers after the meeting of key 150 representatives of the samiti members at sarthak bhavan in paldi . 

the resolution was passed at 10.30 am on wednesday morning , just one and half hours before the 12 noon deadline set by the state government to declare the strike illegal ended . 

with this , the various college , university and non-teaching staff unions , have also called off their complete education bandh call for thursday , where all educational activities in the state were supposed to come to a grinding halt for one day . 

the decision to call off the strike evoked sharp criticism from majority of striking teachers and principals who raised hell outside the sarthak bhavan , alleging that the leaders spearheading the strike have compromised on their cause after their vested interests were taken care of . 

prime issue of concern was the loss of face and also the loss of 15 days ' salary - all this with no gains . " the leaders have sold themselves off to the government . 

with their pockets stuffed , they have now called off the strike " , alleged a agitated teacher immediately after the leaders announced their decision . " why did they involve us in this 15 - day drama if they were to back off like cowards ? 

not a single demand has been fulfilled , so on what basis have they declared to call off the strike ? 

what face will we show to the society , what was the point for our fight " , fumed two lady teachers outside the sarthak bhavan . 

leaders of the samiti justified the decision to end the strike saying that they were left with no other option . " we could see that the government was not at all interested in resolving our issues . 

for how long then could we have stretched and harmed our students ' education " , said patel . 

patel also said that they were requested by a number of persons and organisations to call off the strike for the sake of students , international secretary of the vhp pravin togadia and the gujarat chamber of commerce and industry among them . 

union minister of state for heavy industries vallabh kathiria also pressed to end the strike . 

samiti leaders confessed that they had achieved nothing out of the 15 - day long strike . " we accept that we have achieved nothing . 

but nevertheless , we have shown our strength to the government " , said samiti leader and former president of the gujarat rajya acharya sangh naranbhai patel . 

when questioned about the great opinion divide amongst the samiti members with the teaching fraternity sharply contesting the decision to withdraw , patel said that the rift was an internal matter and will get resolved on its own . " they all are our brothers and sisters . 

we will sort out the issue amongst ourselves " , patel said . 

curiously , samiti president keshubhai patel appealed to the government to resolve their issues at the earliest . 

he also urged the government to withdraw all notices of disciplinary action against the school managements and the teachers . " if this is not announced by thursday , i will sit on fast-unto-death " , said keshubhai patel . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Teachers-blink-first-call-off-strike/articleshow/434496783.cms 

11 SIMI activists held in city TNN | Oct 1 , 2001 , 11.03 PM IST ahmedabad : eleven activists of the students ' islamic movement of india ( simi ) , including asif mustafa husain shaikh , who is reportedly the city unit president , were arrested on sunday morning for staging a demonstration at ahmad shah mosque near victoria garden . 

those arrested include four activists from surat , one from anand and the rest from ahmedabad , deputy commissioner of police ( zone ii ) sp rajkumar told tnn . 

the activists were protesting against us 's campaign against osama bin laden , and the ban on simi around noon at the old mosque . 

they were also raising slogans celebrating simi , police sources said . 

meanwhile , shahpur police seized some documents and a hard disc from classic offset , in noor complex , on saturday . 

this is where simi published its material . 

the police are now getting the material translated since it is all in urdu . 

when the police raided the press , its owner , yasin patel , had already slip away . 

incidentally , some materials had references to the taliban and the destruction of the amiyan buddha , " but we have yet to confirm whether these are provocative and inflammatory " , a senior police official said . 

asif shaikh , who is based in dariapur , is already booked for five other cases at the jamalpur , karanj and shahpur police stations . 

besides shaikh , the demonstrators arrested include javed akhtar shaikh ( surat ) , mohammad iqbal jamalbhai , mohammad salim ( surat ) , mohammad ali abdul chhipa ( anand ) , ilias ahmed gulamnabi shaikh , imtiaz noormohammad ( surat ) , mohammad iftekhar , mohammad irfan rahim shaikh , abdul raiz and shaikh mohammad ( surat ) . 

police inspector kv patel of karanj police station told tnn that the activists were accused of inciting communal passions and were then booked for rioting since they clashed with the police . 

inflammatory hand-outs criticising the government for the ban and the us 's making laden a target were also distributed in the meeting . 

the hand-outs urged the minorities to support their action to pressure the authorities to lift the ban on simi . 

the activists were booked under section 13 of the unlawful activities ( prevention ) act , 1967 , and for rioting . 

earlier in kutch , five persons were picked up by the police on similar grounds as preventive action , which takes the total persons in custody in the state since the ban to 19 . 

the loktantrik samajwadi party has criticised the ban saying that " since the government had no other agenda , they were trying to intimidate the muslims by such decisions " . 

demanding a similar ban on bajrang dal , vishwa hindu parishad and rss , the lsp threatened to launch an agitation from october 2 if the government failed to meet their demand of sealing the offices of these organisations and arresting them under the national security act , the regional president narendra sankhaliya said . 

in a separate press release , the jamaat-e-islami hind alleged that the ban was " politically motivated and calculated to polarise the people on communal lines on the eve of the coming assembly elections in uttar pradesh " . 

the jih also called upon simi to defend itself with political and legal means and appealed to the muslims to exercise patience and restrain . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/11-SIMI-activists-held-in-city/articleshow/298322426.cms 

Villagers seek whereabouts of WB scheme funds TNN | Sep 2 , 2001 , 11.06 PM IST shimoga : the villagers of harnahalli in shimoga taluk staged a dharna in front of the zilla panchayat ( zp ) office here on saturday . 

they demanded an inquiry into the alleged misuse of money while implementing the drinking water and sanitation schemes funded by world bank in their village . 

nearly 150 villagers who came to shimoga demanded the chief executive officer of the zilla panchayat chandrashekaraiah to order an inquiry into the misappropriation of funds . 

they said , the amount sanctioned for the project was rs 76.78 lakh but not even 25 per cent of the work had been undertaken . 

they alleged , whatever work was done was substandard . 

the villagers said , the project which should have been over two years ago , had been completed only on paper . 

the ceo promised the agitators he would visit their village on sunday . 

he assured he would take action if there was negligence on the part of the officials concerned . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Villagers-seek-whereabouts-of-WB-scheme-funds/articleshow/1994219236.cms 

Action against flooding urged TNN | Sep 20 , 2001 , 11.12 PM IST kolar : the vivekananda youth association and the asra committee of kolar have sought from the district administration permanent measures to prevent flow of rain and drain waters into the houses situated in rahamathnagar , prashanth nagar , shanthinagar and other areas which are at the receiving end during every monsoon . 

in a statement issued on tuesday , the members of the association sought that the feeder channel from antharagange to kolaramma tank be desilted as one of the measures to check the flow of water into the houses in low-lying areas . 

they alleged the minor irrigation authorities had not taken the matter seriously . 

the members of the asra committee and the vivekananda youth association have demanded that the civic authorities take up steps to free the feeder canal bund from unauthorised encroachments . 

birthday celebrations : the members of the vishnu fans ' association celebrated the birthday of cine actor vishnuvardhan by organising a blood donation camp at snr hospital here on tuesday . 

inaugurating the camp , dr t.h. rangappa , district surgeon hailed the efforts of the organisers . 

he urged the youth to actively take part in such camps . 

h.k. raghavendra , a.n. prakash , vijayashankar , president of vishnu sene were present on the occasion . 

fruits and sweets were distributed among the in-patients of the hospital . 

sports for better health : sports plays vital role in the alround development of a person , said b.b. ningaiah , former minister . 

he was speaking after inaugurating the district level floodlight volley ball tournament for high schools held at bethamangala on tuesday . 

he further said , there is plenty of hidden talent in the country especially in the rural parts and efforts are needed to bring them to light . 

s . 

chandrashekar , president of the kolar district journalists association , who was the chief guest said given proper training , our sportsmen can excel at the international arena . 

k.b. gopalakrishna , former senate member of bangalore university said , participation in sports events keeps the body and mind in good health . 

a.m. lakshminarayana , secretary of the rural education trust , bethamangala , m . 

mallesh , editor of kolar shakthi also spoke on the occasion . 

bjp stage protest : hundreds of bjp workers staged a protest march in kolar on wednesday in protest against the terror attack on world trade center in new york allegedly by osama bin laden . 

the procession culminated at the mecci square where an effigy of osama bin laden was burnt . 

y . 

surendra gowda , president of bjp district unit criticised the attack . 

k.v. suresh kumar , convenor of state auto morcha said ultras should be dealt with an iron hand . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Action-against-flooding-urged/articleshow/867684327.cms 

HC issues notices to teachers ' unions TNN | Sep 10 , 2001 , 11.11 PM IST the petitioner has sought steps to end the strike , harsh steps against the striking staff , including appointment of fresh staff in place of the striking teachers . 

asserting her rights under article 226 , article 21 and 41 of the constitution of india , she contended that no headmaster and member of the teaching and non-teaching staff shall resort to any form of strike in connection with any matter , pertaining to conditions of their service . 

she claimed that teachers are well protected and that they are not transferred and they also enjoy approximately 184 holidays in a year . 

they also engage tuition classes and write guide books to supplement their income . 

besides , they are given maximum salary in view of the fifth pay commission recommendations . 

looking at all these , and , particularly , in view of the fact that the xth , xith and xiith are a turning point in a student 's career , it can be said that continuance of the strike amounts to denial of right to life under article 21 and denial of education under article 41 of the constitution . 

the petitioner prayed that the state be asked to restore education facilities immediately . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/HC-issues-notices-to-teachers-unions/articleshow/1453542433.cms 

Students clash on campus TNN | Sep 18 , 2001 , 11.50 PM IST vadodara : supporters of student leaders clashed on ms university campus towards the close of last day of campaigning for the forthcoming students union elections on tuesday . 

according to the complaint lodged with the sayajigunj police station , one chirag parikh was bashed up by a group of students . 

those named in the police complaint are simit patel , janit patel , bhavesh patel , pinal patel , vishal alias chhote modi and nilesh mane . 

parikh , a resident of diamond jubilee hostels , said he was beaten up by a group of students while he was campaigning for his leader . 

university sources term the fight on campus as one between two rival group of students supporting student leaders of their camp who are in fray for union posts . 

a police case has been registered under sections 143 and 323 of the indian penal code . 

the city police were called in at the faculty of commerce . 

one student was badly injured following the fight . 

faculty of commerce dean prof m d mohite said the constant bickering and infighting between students was disturbing peace on campus . 

he said , " we have also written to the city police commissioner regarding the need for police bandobast on the campus . " url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Students-clash-on-campus/articleshow/2007454578.cms 

Furore in A ' bad co-op bank over deposits in MMCB TNN | Sep 23 , 2001 , 12.27 AM IST ahmedabad : trouble is brewing at the ahmedabad district co-operative bank ( adcb ) over the bank 's investments for the revival the madhavpura mercantile co-operative bank ltd ( mmcb ) . 

several members of co-operative societies from different parts of ahmedabad district staged a hunger strike in front of the bank premises near the income tax circle here . 

the protesters were are demanding that the recently-concluded annual general meeting be convened afresh . 

alleging that the 5,159 member-co-operative societies was not intimated about the agm on time , and did not get to voice their concerns in keeping with the norms . 

co-operative society members threatened to take their fight to the streets by taking out a massive rally from lal darwaja to the bank headquarters situated near the reserve bank of india office in ahmedabad . 

the other more startling demand of the agitationists was voiced by a director of adcb , pradip singh chudasama , who joined the agitationists on saturday . " the chairman of adcb ( amit shah ) has promised to give rs 100 crore to the mmcb at the rate of 7.5 per cent interest , to bail it out from the financial crisis . 

while one knows that this is being done to buy two positions on the mmcb board of directors , we question the very logic behind this decision involving public money , " chudasama told tnn . 

he added : " we demand that the chairman give a similar loan with exactly the same rate of interest to the farming community that has suffered drought for years together . 

this agitation is intended to stop autocracy in a co-operative bank which largely deals with farmers ' money . 

though the bank is financially stable and has made a profit , one would not like it to go the mmcb way . " jayantibhai solanki , chairman of suryakala agarkha utpada sahkari mandal of bapunagar , who on saturday completed the fifth day on hunger strike said : " there is definitely something fishy about the state of affairs in adcb . 

the agm held on september 18 got over within a very short duration . 

by the time we reached the dinesh hall on tuesday , the meeting had passed four of the five proposals , and the meeting folded up as soon as the chairman declared a dividend of 10 per cent . 

we did not get to say a word . " citing examples of " arbitrary " investments like one worth rs 20 crore made by adcb in maharashtra krishna valley development corporation ( without consulting its co-operative body members ) and failed-promises like partial crop insurance as against the promised 73 per cent , chudasama said : " after 102 hours of hunger strike , there has been no effort from the adcb chairman to resolve the issue , so i decided to join the agitation . 

by the end of this masses ' movement , one hopes for transparency in the working of adcb and its branches . 

this would be crucial for its financial buoyancy and not going the mmcb way . " url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Furore-in-Abad-co-op-bank-over-deposits-in-MMCB/articleshow/567368177.cms 

CPM activists held for FCI raid TNN | Sep 19 , 2001 , 01.32 AM IST kurnool : police have arrested about 35 activists of cpm here on tuesday for attempting to raid the godowns of the food corporation of india ( fci ) near the collector 's office . 

hundreds of cpm supporters including women rallied to the fci godowns to raid them and distribute the food grains url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/CPM-activists-held-for-FCI-raid/articleshow/2136999830.cms 

Girl 's death : Siddaramaiah joins chorus for arrest TNN | Aug 8 , 2001 , 11.52 PM IST mysore : the campaign by local organisations demanding the arrest of the accused in the death of 12 - year-old domestic aide lakshmi under mysterious circumstances , received support from karnataka janata dal(s) president siddaramaiah here on wednesday . 

he demanded an inquiry into the alleged atrocities by the police against protesters on tuesday , and the arrest of the maid 's employer . 

at a press meet , siddaramaiah condemned the attitude of the police towards the protesters led by writer ramdas and former mayor narayan . 

he said , the police action was violation of basic rights of an individual in a democracy . 

he suggested the organisation should approach the national human rights commission ( nhrc ) . 

` ` the police had no business to beat up protesters . 

the police should have handled the situation in a mature fashion . ' ' the jd(s) leader said , the demand of the protesters was ` ` just , ' ' and added that there was no hitch for the police in booking the case , as the house owner had violated labour laws by employing lakshmi for only rs 2,000 a year . 

he also said there was no law which prohibited people from protesting in a peaceful manner . 

the members of various organisations led by narayan and ramdas took out a protest march on wednesday and demanded a thorough inquiry into the alleged brutality of the police . 

more than 1,000 protesters members who started from town hall raised slogans against the police and the government and later submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner against the city police commissioner . 

deputy commissioner basawaraj who received the memorandum in turn promised the protesters to inquire into tuesday 's incident . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Girls-death-Siddaramaiah-joins-chorus-for-arrest/articleshow/1875414564.cms 

Bellary sees a spate of workers ' protests THE TIMES OF INDIA NEWS SERVICE | Jul 25 , 2001 , 10.51 PM IST bellary : work in post offices across the district was severely affected when employees of the department resorted to strike on wednesday protesting the union government 's move to open some public sector undertakings besides downsizing the existing staff strength . 

class iii , group-d employees , postmen and gramin dak sevaks threw their weight behind the protesting employees in response to a call by the national federation of postal employees . 

the decision to strike work was taken at a meeting here on july 20 . 

the demands of the postal employees : the government should not privatise the postal services ; should stop corporatisation of the organisation ; refrain from abolishing vacant posts and should fill up vacancies ; should stop downsizing and retrenchment of employees ; and stop such amendments to the labour laws which go against the interest of workers . 

employees ' union functionaries m . 

satish and p . 

mallikarjuna gowda and dadapeer of gramin dak sevaks led the protest . 

elsewhere in the town , state government employees staged a dharna in front of the deputy commissioner 's office protesting government 's privatisation policy . 

the central government employees ' association supported the dharna . 

the striking employees were opposing certain decisions of the government which did not safeguard their interests . 

some of the decisions concern leave facility and the option to retire voluntarily . 

they described the decisions as " draconian " . 

the strike was organised by r . 

thippanna , district unit president of the karnataka state government employees ' association , and t . 

rajareddy , its secretary . 

doctors ' strike on : members of the karnataka state junior doctors ' association held a rally urging the government to fulfil their long-pending demands . 

association district unit president dr rakesh shavi and his deputy sangappa gabi told reporters it was unfortunate the government had not acted on their memoranda , which were submitted to the medical education minister and the vice-chancellor of rajiv gandhi university for health sciences . 

later , the doctors submitted memoranda to the deputy commissioner and vims director dr jayaramaiah . 

rally held : at another rally in the town , the government was urged to declare bellary " drought-hit " . 

the rally , organised by the karnataka prantha raitha sangha and karnataka prantha krishi koolikaarara sangha , was addressed by v . 

s . 

shivashankar of raitha sangha and h.m. viswanath swamy of koolikaarara sangha . 

they wanted the government to address the five " most burning problems " immediately . 

they are : the government must declare bellary district as " drought-prone " ; crop loans should be written off ; revival of the system through which food grains were distributed as wage for labourers ; the government should check migration of famished farmers and labourers from the district ; and launching fodder banks on a war-footing . 

a memorandum listing the demands was submitted to the deputy commissioner . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Bellary-sees-a-spate-of-workers-protests/articleshow/1207664092.cms 

Engineers protest against bureaucrats ’ interference TNN | Sep 15 , 2001 , 01.26 AM IST hyderabad : andhra pradesh engineers joint action committee ( apejac ) on friday protested against the interference by bureaucrats in technical matters relating to the department . 

addressing a press conference , apejac chairman k umakanth said a lunch hour dharna will be held on september 15 on engineers day as a part of their agitation at errum manzil office . 

he also demanded the government to fill up of vacancies in all cadres , stop privatisation of irrigation-related activities , harassment and suspension of engineers on flimsy grounds . 

the jac chairman said senior engineers be posted as secretaries to the government as agreed by the cabinet sub-committee earlier . 

the apejac , formed by the technical associations of the irrigation and command area development department , has asked the government stop re-employment of retired officers in cadre posts . 

apejac chairman said if the demands were not met by the end of the month all engineers will wear black badges to offices from september 1 and participate lunch hour demonstrations from september 11 . 

apejac , general secretary ravindranath reddy was also present at the press conference . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/Engineers-protest-against-bureaucrats-interference/articleshow/1121022842.cms 

Naxalite explode landmine at Rudaram Aug 16 , 2001 , 02.55 PM IST jagdalpur : naxalites on thursday exploded a landmine at village rudaram under the bijapur police district where a police party had gone to remove the black flag hoisted by naxalites on wednesday on independence day . 

however , no one was injured , police sources said . 

soon after the six-member police party reached rudaram on thursday , naxalites exploded a landmine and fired several bullets , the sources said . 

bijapur police district was formally carved out from dantewada district on wednesday . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Naxalite-explode-landmine-at-Rudaram/articleshow/1277193448.cms 

Junior doctors strike continues TNN | Aug 4 , 2001 , 10.28 PM IST bangalore : the junior doctors throughout the state continued their protest which entered the 13 day on saturday . 

the strike has severely affected the functioning of the government hospitals . 

a joint committee meeting of the association and the concerned ministers was held on friday wherein the ministers and legislators promised that their demands would be met by august 15 . 

the rajiv gandhi university will organise a syndicate meeting on monday in which the post graduate examination pattern will be discussed . 

the executive members of all the medical colleges will meet on monday at victoria hospital to plan for the next course of action . 

meanwhile , the junior doctors association , hubli , in a release has stated that till the government gives an assurance in writing to fulfil all their demands , the protest will be continued . 

the association , bellary has stated that in the vishveshwaraiah institute of medical sciences , bellary , the work has been completely paralysed with the opd input reduced to less then 10 per cent due to the strike . 

the associations have pressed for a quick solution to end the protest . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Junior-doctors-strike-continues/articleshow/1066500833.cms 

9 more Army men killed in J & K Aug 30 , 2001 , 01.07 AM IST srinagar : eleven persons , including nine army personnel , were killed in separate incidents in kashmir on wednesday . 

according to official sources , six army personnel were killed and nine , mostly security personnel , were injured when militants blew up a private bus in anantnag district . 

no militant outfit has claimed responsibility for the explosion . 

the incident occurred on the main road at hamalpala , 12 km from the shrine of ashmuqam , in the afternoon . 

inspector-general of police , kashmir , a k bhan said the area around the scene of the explosion was immediately cordoned off and reinforcements sent to nab the militants . " we are waiting for details , " bhan said . 

the condition of some of the injured was stated to be serious , the sources . 

in another incident , three army personnel were killed and several injured as pakistani troops resorted to unprovoked and indiscriminate shelling on forward indian positions along the line of control in the uri sector . 

the sources said pakistani troops shelled the rustam post area near nambla village early on wednesday , killing three soldiers . 

several jawans were also injured in the shelling , which was apparently aimed at pushing militants into the valley , the sources said , adding that the indian troops fired back in retaliation . 

meahwhile , foreign mercenaries have outnumbered local militants in jammu and kashmir , casualty figures of militants killed at the hands of security forces this year have indicated , official sources said on wednesday . 

as against 0.2 per cent of the 844 militants killed in 1991 , the number of foreign mercenaries who fell to the bullets of security forces this year till the middle of this month stood at 57.2 per cent . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/9-more-Army-men-killed-in-JK/articleshow/1458098183.cms 

Students stage dharna for facilities TNN | Sep 7 , 2001 , 11.35 PM IST hubli : students of government primary school in girinichala , near here , staged a dharna in front of the tahsildar 's office demanding better facilities for their school . 

the 50 - year-old school has 250 students from classes first to fifth . 

five classes are held in just two rooms having no ` proper roofing ' . ` ` rain or shine , we are forced to hold classes in these conditions , ' ' the school authorities complained . 

they have been demanding these facilities for the last five years . 

the other demands include a separate site for the school and funds to constructing a building to house five classrooms . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Students-stage-dharna-for-facilities/articleshow/1032651472.cms 

Amarsinh who ? 

Congress what ? 

| THE TIMES OF INDIA NEWS SERVICE | Jul 14 , 2001 , 01.50 AM IST ahmedabad : has the congress in gujarat all but withered away ? 

if you are surprised to hear the question , consider the following facts . 

early this week came the curious revelation that the son of the state 's forest minister had been booked by none other than the forest department for his alleged hand in illegal felling and transportation of forest produce . 

both the father and the son have , of course , denied the charges and claimed the latter has been framed . 

it is quite possible that the son may be innocent , but the matter is still under examination . 

in the meanwhile you would have expected the major opposition party to create a furore . 

after all , matters like this do not surface every other day . 

but all we have heard was a whimper from state congress president amarsinh chaudhary . 

he said somewhere that the forest minister must go . 

nothing more . 

of course , chaudhary cannot be expected to raise a hue and cry on this matter ; he was himself alleged to have been involved in a similar case a few years ago . 

but what about other state congress leaders ? 

in the week following the unveiling of the tehelka tapes , a senior bjp mp told this correspondent rather contemptuously : " these congress chaps are absolutely useless . 

if we were in their place you would have seen the way we unleashed our campaign . " he was talking of congressmen in gujarat who were making an apology of an attempt to embarrass the government . 

the same was the case when the madhavpura scam broke out . 

but try telling congress leaders of the state that they look like a passenger train destined for nowhere , and you will probably provoke violent reactions similar to what principals of ahmedabad colleges got from nsui activists on thursday . 

for the record , the nsui is student wing of the congress . 

ever since the congress captured power in the panchayat elections last year , party leaders have been on cloud nine . 

it is a foregone conclusion that we will come to power with a thumping majority in the next assembly election , is what congress men have been asserting since then . 

the keshubhai government is so corrupt and everybody is so fed up with them that nobody will vote for the bjp , they aver . 

but is this something that is so certain ? 

performance-wise keshubhai has little to write home about . 

neither is the government expected to qualitatively improve its performance over the remaining period of its life . 

but elections are not fought on performance alone . 

if your competitor looks worse than you , then chances are that you might be voted back , whatever be your performance . 

ask the left front in calcutta and they might reveal how replacing jyoti basu with buddhadeb bhattacharya a few months before the election gave the lf a brand new image , one which shone compared with the rabble-rousing mamata banerjee . 

the congress could well be hurt the most by party worthy shankersinh vaghela . 

a former rss man , the highly-ambitious vaghela has never had full acceptability in the congress . 

and if the grapevine is to be believed , he is feeling restive ever since amarsinh was anointed the state party boss . 

there is nothing more that vaghela the former chief minister can expect from the party . 

it is possible that he might leave the party and form a third front . 

that could well be the last nail in the coffin of gujarat congress . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Amarsinh-who-Congress-what/articleshow/1746346645.cms 

Lesson learnt , teachers back in schools TNN | Sep 15 , 2001 , 01.27 AM IST ahmedabad : there was a lot of catching up to do as higher secondary schools reopened on thursday with teachers ending their fortnight-long strike which achieved nothing . 

the teachers did n't really return to schools as victors and some of them had that sheepish grin which said it all . 

students said some teachers behaved as if nothing had happened in the last fortnight , and thursday was just another day for students in the city . 

but post-stir , the students have , indeed , begun to see their teachers in a different light , what with some of them putting up vulgar posters of the education minister on a busy ahmedabad street . " i wanted to ask my teacher if he would scold us if we made some similar cartoons on the black board every day , " remarked a tenth standard student of st . 

xavier 's loyola hall . 

it is still not clear whether the students , who have already lost precious two weeks because of the strike , would be delivered another blow with the curtailment of navratri and diwali holidays . 

this again , is not going to make the teachers too popular ! 

there was an ominous silence as you enter diwan ballubhai higher secondary school at paldi . 

where is the buzz of busy classrooms if the teachers have indeed withdrawn their strike , you wonder . 

a peep into the classrooms proves that normal business is , in fact , back on track . 

stern-looking teachers are holding fort as the students , in uniforms that look neat , peer into their textbooks . 

principal dayalbhai patel is also busy reading a book , but this one is a government booklet on the essential services maintenance act . 

he is wondering how teachers could be brought under its purview . 

patel confirmed there were hardly any absentees in school , either teachers or students . 

the day was also an opportune moment for teachers at ankur high school to congratulate their octogenarian director frenny desai who recently received the eklavya excellent educator award for lifetime achievement . 

present and past teachers gathered in her chamber to wish desai , one of the last remaining gandhians to have participated in the freedom struggle . 

outside , a sea of white and blue uniforms stroll out after their first day at school since the strike . " at some point during the unexpected vacation , i started missing my classmates , my friends , " one of the students said . " not the teachers , just my friends . 

in that sense it is good to be back . 

the rest is all the same . " st xavier 's high school , loyola hall , was one of the few schools where a handful of students of standard xi kept coming to the campus even when the authorities had not asked them to . 

it was , therefore , not difficult for them to get back on track when the strike was called off . " you can see for yourself , " said principal father fernand durai pointing outside his window as groups of students ran around during the recess . " they seem to be happy to be back . " he added that except those who had reported sick , most of the teachers and students were back . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Lesson-learnt-teachers-back-in-schools/articleshow/1596744434.cms 

Rana 's brother remanded to 3 - day police custody TNN | Aug 11 , 2001 , 11.06 PM IST new delhi : vijay alias raju , brother of sher singh rana , and the alleged ` ` main conspirator ' ' in phoolan devi murder case was arrested from inter-state bus terminus on friday night and remanded to three-days police custody by a city court here on saturday . 

producing vijay before the patiala house courts duty magistrate swarn kanta mehra , the police said vijay was ` ` founder of the conspiracy ' ' . 

he was the man who thought of creating an alternate set of alibis in roorkee for the killers in delhi . 

police told the court that vijay was accomplice to vicky in two bank robberies , of rs 15 lakh and rs 10 lakh , and the murder of a bank guard . 

the court also turned down the plea of advocates ^ satyapal singh tomar and ram singh baliyan ^ seeking a security cover for rana who apprehended attack and threat to his life . 

the magistrate said tihar jail security arrangements were sound enough . 

sending rana to 14 days judicial custody , the magistrate directed the tihar jail superintendent to ensure proper security arrangements for the accused . 

rana 's lawyers had sought the security cover during transit of the accused between jails and courts . 

according to police , vijay was the person who first withdrew the surety of rana in an excise case in roorkee and sending one shravan in place of rana behind the bars on july 18 . 

after phoolan devi was murdered in delhi on july 25 , vijay then arranged for surety for shravan and had him released . 

thus on the official jail records ` ` rana ' ' remained behind bars in roorkee on the day of crime in delhi . 

in the same pattern , vijay played the surety ploy to send rajinder behind the bars on july 2 and had him released on july 26 . 

rana , after arrest , had told police that his accomplice was rajinder . 

whereas rajinder on official jail records was behind the bars on the day of crime . 

the surety ploy was exposed when police checked the jail records and found that it was dhan prakash alias vicky who shot at phoolan and her guard . 

the investigating officer alleged the accused made a calculated move to exploit the legal loopholes to undermine the criminal proceedings against him and had ` ` made a mockery of law ' ' . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Ranas-brother-remanded-to-3-day-police-custody/articleshow/1776273718.cms 

Dental students protest against terrorism TNN | Sep 19 , 2001 , 11.06 PM IST davanagere : the students of two local dental colleges here took out a procession against world terrorism here on sunday and urged for world peace and harmony . 

a release said the students were upset and were concerned that the world was progressing towards terrorism as shown in the attack last tuesday on both wtc of new york and the pentagon in washington . 

a procession was taken out with cutouts bearing slogans against world terrorism and the procession culminated after an oath-taking against world terrorism . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/Dental-students-protest-against-terrorism/articleshow/18297847.cms 

Politics keeps lecturers occupied | Aug 3 , 2001 , 12.25 AM IST new delhi : students who ? 

teacher-raj is the operative word in delhi university . 

involved in umpteen tug-of-wars with various groups , the varsity is their political classroom . 

the image of a teacher confined to academics has been shredded by their newfound political avatar . 

to the extent that even a critical debate like absenteeism of teachers is being dragged on , with some even supporting the truants . 

the crucial question is whether teachers elected to the du academic council actually work in the interest of students . " talk of appointment of teachers , principals , revision of courses ... all academic matters get coloured in a political light , " said an academic council member . 

the role : the four delhi university teachers ' associations are all politically affiliated . 

while the national democratic teachers ' front is affiliated to the bjp , the democratic teachers ' front has a leftist leaning . 

the indian national teachers ' congress and the academics for action and development have ties with the congress . 

student issues invariably get stumped , despite the fact that several independent candidates also make it to the council . " no group fields more than four to five candidates for the 26 elected seats in the ac , " duta president and aad chairman s.s. rathi said . 

the rest of the seats are cornered by independent candidates . 

the consequences : poor quality of teaching is one of the most obvious outcomes . " the group in power influencing appointment of teachers is common , " said ndtf member manoj sinha . 

dtf vice-president vijendra sharma agreed . " even meritorious candidates require help from these groups , " he said . 

take the instance of an east delhi college . 

it was alleged that the principal favoured the induction of teachers owing allegiance to a particular group . 

the issue of the principal 's suspension developed into a full-scale war . 

similar were the cases of two other principals who were accused of financial irregularities . 

some groups even supported them . 

the machinations come into play even in the appointment of principals . " there was a disagreement between the university nominees and other governing body members over the principals ' appointment , " said a teacher representative in a governing body . 

the two nominees allegedly preferred teachers with a certain ideological orientation . 

the posts were re-advertised in two of the colleges . 

it 's a telling fact that varsity officials refused to comment on the issue of teachers ' politics , terming it ' sensitive ' . 

admitting helplessness in the face of policy towards teaching and non-teaching staff , officials seemed at a loss for words . 

but the direct impact of politics is felt when classrooms go empty due to strikes . 

last year 's marathon strike lasted 45 days . 

recently , the teachers threatened to boycott examinations to press their demand to implement a promotional scheme . " it is self-interest versus student interest which now reflects on the perception of teachers , " said du registrar k k panda . 

the teachers , on the other hand , blame their higher-ups . " according to rules , the academic council meeting should be held every month , but in the past 14 months , only three regular meetings have been held , " said rekha dayal , an aad member . " how do we raise issues if meetings are not held ? " she asked . 

however , there have been occasions where groups have been divided , ostensibly over student interest issues . 

take the instance of bit / bis courses . 

the academic council in its meeting held in october decided to downgrade the four-year courses . 

there were groups which opposed as well as supported the decision . " this , despite the fact that the courses were being recognised in student interest , " a teacher said . 

interestingly , there have been instances where upgradation of courses have suffered due to ideological differences . 

another conflict began brewing with talks of revising the history course , with some teachers claiming that it was a bid to ' saffronise ' the curriculum . " by and large , teachers have not done enough to alleviate the suffering of students , especially in terms of accountability , " said sharma . 

teaching is also about inspiration and acting as a role model , he added . 

but is there a way out ? " what the teachers can do is participate actively in the university-industry interaction cells . 

this will not only encourage research , but also increase academic involvement , " panda said . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Politics-keeps-lecturers-occupied/articleshow/1884600074.cms 

Two of Baba 's men arrested TNN | Oct 3 , 2001 , 02.22 AM IST sirhind ( fatehgarh sahib ): the police , on tuesday , claimed to have arrested two persons for their involvement in setting seven birs of guru granth sahib afire in a gurdwara at tarkhan majra village on the intervening night of saturday and sunday . 

following the incident , the agitated people had blocked road traffic at various places in the district and burnt effigies of baba piara singh bhaniarewala . 

giving details , ssp harnek singh saran said in a press conference that the arrested persons had been identified as balvir singh alias biru and rampal singh , both residents of tarkhan majra village where the incident had took place . 

he further disclosed that both were the followers of bhaniarewala . 

balvir singh is a vegetable seller while rampal singh is a labourer . 

during interrogations , the two confessed their involvement in the crime , saying they had done it at the instance of bhaniarewala to take revenge for burning of bhavsagar granth in ludhiana on september 16 , the ssp disclosed . 

saran said that after the ludhiana incident , the two had gone to bhaniarewala 's dera where the baba directed them to set the maximum number of birs of guru granth sahib on fire to avenge the burning of bhavsagar granth . 

the police have also claimed recovery of some objectionable material from the two arrested persons , including audio cassettes and printed books , which include a 28 - page booklet bearing the title ' ardaas ' . 

dig ( patiala range ) sanjiv gupta , on tuesday , visited the gurdwara where the birs were burnt . 

the police sources disclosed that the two accused were arrested from sadhugarh bus stand by a police party led by two inspectors harpreet singh and kashmira singh . 

the two were arrested following a tip-off received at the naka at madhopur chowk , the sources said . 

the sirhind police claimed that they were already in the list of suspected persons and after the incident , they had gone underground . 

meanwhile , the protests against burning of birs continued on tuesday . 

the industrial town of mandi gobindgarh observed a complete bandh for the second day and kept all the business establishments closed . 

after the ' bhog ' ceremony of guru granth sahib , large number of people took part in a protest march in the town and after burning the effigy of bhaniarewala at gt road , blocked traffic for around one hour . 

later , they organised a protest rally in the main bazaar . 

people from different communities participated in the rally . 

they demanded registration of case against the culprits under section 302 of the ipc . 

the shiromani gurdwara parbandhak committee has started the akhand path of guru granth sahib in the gurdwara where the birs were burnt . 

bhog ceremony would be performed on october 4 . 

on the other hand , the sarab hind shiromani akali dal has announced to start the akhand path at the same place from october 5 and the bhog ceremony and ardas would be held on october 7 . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Two-of-Babas-men-arrested/articleshow/870605280.cms 

AMC staff seek police cover for risky jobs TNN | Sep 12 , 2001 , 12.08 AM IST ahmedabad : more than 200 employees posted at the north zone office of the ahmedabad municipal corporation ( amc ) stormed into the civic body 's headquarters at astodia on monday . 

complete with drums and slogans delivered in singsong tones , the employees led by the ahmedabad municipal servants ' association ( amsa ) demanded that they be provided police protection when going on " risky " assignments like disconnecting illegal water lines , especially in eastern parts of the city . 

monday 's event was expected as agitated employees had held the north zonal office of the amc at ransom for about five days . 

and with reason enough as the civic body on its part has intensified a drive to disconnect illegal water lines in eastern areas of the city like kubernagar . 

during the last one month , the corporation has cut off over 400 illegal tappers in kubernagar itself . 

with an estimated 25 per cent leakages ( a major chunk of which is dominated by illegal water tappers ) plaguing the municipal water supply , the problem is indeed worth the concern . 

gulam ahmed malek and hirabhai jashabhai chawda , working as fitters in amc 's engineering department , were beaten up by local residents . 

this had prompted them to stop work at corporation 's north zonal office in protest against non-provision of police protection to amc employees . " this is a sensitive task and yet the employees are unnecessarily being targeted . 

we have submitted a memorandum to the municipal commissioner to give us security if they want employees to continue performing their duties " , said dinkar bhatt , the general secretary of amsa . 

in their memorandum , the association has cited two instances . 

one that occurred on september 4 was when amc employees were busy digging to uncover an illegal connection that supplied water to madhuwan park society in kubernagar . 

localites protested the move and even beat up the employees before throwing them out of the housing complex . 

a police case naming five accused too has been filed in this regard . 

the second altercation , also in kubernagar , occurred much along the same lines but with a difference . 

here , the victim-fitter , chawda , alleges that among those protesting the move ( complete with abuses and threats ) was a local corporator , suryaben patel , and her husband . 

municipal commissioner k kailashnathan said , " while senior officials of the engineering department have contacted the local police station for providing security , i have written to the police commissioner on the same context . 

we cannot have repetitions of such instances where amc employees are out to perform their duty . " kailashnathan added that , " due to numerous complaints of water contamination from eastern parts , we had to take this drive . 

rampant illegal connections , which may have cropped up due to lapses on part of some department officers , have led to polluted water seeping into the main water pipelines of amc . 

after investigations , we found kubernagar to have most number of illegal connections . " url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/AMC-staff-seek-police-cover-for-risky-jobs/articleshow/1109275210.cms 

APBEF employees stage dharna TNN | Sep 28 , 2001 , 01.08 AM IST hyderabad : andhra pradesh bank employees federation ( apbef ) organised staged a dharna on thursday in front of the indian circle office demanding the payment of wage arrears which was delayed for about four years . 

the employees decided to go on a one day strike on friday to intensify their stir . 

aibea central committee member , b s r mohan reddy , secretary of aituc potluri nageswara rao and apbef general secretary b s ram baby addressed the gathering . 

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/hyderabad/APBEF-employees-stage-dharna/articleshow/549480518.cms 

This time , a deer strays TNN | Sep 25 , 2001 , 11.20 PM IST bangalore : balagaranahalli in attibele police limits had a surprise guest on monday . 

no , it was n't a leapord like the one that strayed into a college campus in mysore on september 21 , but a harmless spotted deer . 

residents alerted the police when the deer entered a few houses . 

the police housed the deer in their station till afternoon . 

the bannerghatta national park squad , on being informed by the police , rushed to the station with a special ambulance to rescue the deer . 

says dr anand ramanathan of the wildlife trust of india , who was accompanied the forest squad : ` ` heavy rain in the last couple of days could have driven the animal into the urban area . 

' ' after being declared medically fit by forest officials , the deer was released in the wild by evening . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/This-time-a-deer-strays/articleshow/1155279629.cms 

BBA to strike work till Wednesday TNN | Sep 2 , 2001 , 10.51 PM IST vadodara : advocates of the city have decided to refrain from work till wednesday to press for their long-pending demands . 

according to baroda bar association ( bba ) executive committee members , a decision in this regard was taken recently at a meeting . 

the members will also go to the high court and secretariat in gandhinagar on tuesday to submit a memorandum over the issue . 

bba president narendra tiwari said that the advocates would hold a public meeting near nyay mandir to create awareness about demands . 

the demands include setting up benches of the debt recovery tribunal and the high court in the city . 

tiwari said that several demands could be taken care of within a day . " however , it is appalling to note that the government is taking so much time , " he said . 

on wednesday , advocates will take out a rally in the city along with teachers and health workers to press for their demands . 

tiwari said that they would continue with the agitation till the issues were resolved . 

url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/BBA-to-strike-work-till-Wednesday/articleshow/30905444.cms 

Nadiad civic body owes GEB Rs 9 cr TNN | Aug 17 , 2001 , 10.24 PM IST nadiad : power supply to the nadiad municipal office was snapped on friday by the geb authorities for non-payment of bill amounting to rs . 

9 crore . 

even in march , the geb had cut supply of municipal office , octroi check posts and municipal hall for the same reason . 

however , it was restored at the intervention of the head office . 

alongside 325 teachers of 47 municipal schools staged a demonstration here at the municipal office to highlight non-payment of their two months ' salary . 

though 95 per cent of the salary was deposited by the government only five per cent is to be borne by the municipality , somehow for the past two months , municipal authorities have failed to deposit even such a negligible sum , they said . 

owing to the strike teaching was hit in municipal schools . 

the strike is likely to continue if the salary is not paid , said the teachers . 

meanwhile , municipal                                          government imposed the essential services maintenance act ( esma ) on the striking schoolteachers in the state , a number of other unions have threatened to come out on to the streets . 
the federation of college and university teachers ' associations of gujarat state , the gujarat rajya adhyapak mahamandal and the non-teaching staff of the various universities have said that they will join the schoolteachers ' agitation if esma is not revoked . 
the gujarat nurses union ( gnu ) on the other had has threatened a separate agitation of its own for better wages and other perks . " the government realised overnight that teaching is an essential service , " the teacher federation 's co-ordination committee chairman professor ks shastri told tnn . " all these years we have been treated shabbily with the government not even kept its word on promises made earlier . 
this government had made a lot of promises in 1998 but did not implement them , so they are the culprits , not the teachers . 
they have to revoke esma as soon as possible or we will have no choice but to join the schoolteachers . " some 500 teachers from across the state had met at ahmedabad two days ago to discuss problems of part-time teachers and directors of physical education who are demanding that they be included in the pension scheme as well , apart from the provident fund scheme . 
if their demands are not met by the end of this month , they will start another agitation from october 1 . 
as if this was not enough the administrative staff of all universities in the state will go on a one-day mass casual leave on september 10 for their long pending demand for a conveyance allowance . 
they will also take out a rally from pathik ashram in gandhinagar . " it is about time all the various bodies in the state 's education scene rose in one voice against the promises that this government has not kept , " one of their leaders and gujarat university official arvind shah said . 
gnu president narendra modi , on the other hand , said they had given the state government time till september 16 to work out better wages and allowances for the nursing community . 
about 10,000 nurses in government-run hospitals throughout the state have been demanding salaries equivalent to their central government counterparts and hike in other allowances as well . 
modi says the government already knows they are planning an agitation as they had informed the officials on august 21 . 
from september 1 , the nurses will start wearing black badges as a mark of protest and build up to further action if their demands are not met. " so far the state government has not shown any inclination to negotiate with us , " modi added . " if nothing concrete shows up , then we plan to work without white uniform from september 10 to 16 , when the decision to intensify the stir would be taken by the gnu 's executive council . " the state government may in fact have bit more than it can chew as esma has not scared the school teachers away . 
if other unions also come out on the street , it may create a major embarrassment for the keshubhai government . 
url : https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Nurses-on-warpath-college-teachers-may-join-soon/articleshow/1428508939.cms 
